DRAFT 1
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
HICKMAN COUNTY, TENNESSEE
P.C. RESOLUTION NO. 2005-1
PREPARED FOR THE
HICKMAN COUNTY REGIONAL PLANNING COMMISSION
PREPARED BY THE
HICKMAN COUNTY REGIONAL PLANNING COMMISSION
and the
TENNESSEE DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMIC AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
LOCAL PLANNING OFFICE
SUITE 128
446 METROPLEX DRIVE
NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE 37211-3139
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE I GENERAL PROVISION PAGE
1-101 Title ART. I-1
1-102 Authority ART. I-1
1-103 Jurisdiction ART. I-1
1-104 Policy and Purpose ART. I-1
1-105 Interpretation, Conflict and Severability ART. I-3
1-106 Saving Provisions ART. I-3
1-107 Amendments ART. I-4
1-108 Resubdivision of Land ART. I-5
1-109 Conditions ART. I-5
1-110 Vacation of Plats ART. I-5
1-111 Variances ART. I-6
1-112 Enforcement, Violation, and Penalties ART. I-7
1-113 Repeal of Previous Regulations ART. I-10
ARTICLE II PROCEDURES FOR PLAT APPROVAL ART. II-1
2-101 General Procedure ART. II-1
2-102 Sketch Plat (Major Subdivisions Only) ART. II-5
2-103 Preliminary Plat (Major Subdivisions Only) ART. II-6
2-104 Final Subdivision Plat (Minor and Major Subdivision) ART. II-9
2-105 Signing and Recording of Subdivision Plat ART. II-11
ARTICLE III ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION AND
MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS ART. III-1
3-101 Improvements and Performance Bond ART. III-1
3-102 Inspection of Improvements ART. III-2
3-103 Maintenance of Improvements ART. III-3
3-104 Deferral or Waiver of Required Improvements ART. III-3
3-105 Escrow Deposits for Lot Improvements ART. III-4
3-106 Issuance of Building Permits and Certificates
 of Occupancy ART. III-4
ARTICLE IV REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPROVEMENTS,
AND RESERVATIONS, AND DESIGN ART. IV-1
4-101 General Requirements ART. IV-1
4-102 Lots Requirements ART. IV-4
4-103 Public Ways ART. IV-10
4-104 Road Construction Specifications ART. IV-18
4-105 Drainage and Storm Sewers ART. IV-18
4-106 Water Facilities ART. IV-21
4-107 Sewage Facilities ART. IV-22
4-108 Pedestrian Ways ART. IV-23
4-109 Utilities Easements ART. IV-24
4-110 Public Uses ART. IV-24
4-111 Preservation of Natural Features and Amenities ART. IV-25
4-112 Residential Subdivisions ART. IV-25
(Table of Contents Continued)
ARTICLE V SPECIFICATIONS FOR DOCUMENTS TO BE
 SUBMITTED ART. V-1
5-101 Sketch Plat ART. V-1
5-102 Preliminary Plat ART. V-2
5-103 Construction Plans ART. V-4
5-104 Final Plat ART. V-6
5-105 Form of Dedication Offer ART. V-13
ARTICLE VI DEFINITIONS ART. VI-1
6-101 Usage ART. VI-1
6-102 Words and Terms Defined ART. VI-1
ARTICLE VII ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS AND
 AMENDMENTS ART. VII-1
7-101 Original Enactment ART. VII-1
APPENDIX A FORMS APPX. A-1
Form Number 1 Preliminary Plat Checklist APPX. A-2
Form Number 2 Final Plat Checklist APPX. A-4
Form Number 3 Performance Bond APPX. A-6
Form Number 3 Irrevocable Documentary Letter of Credit APPX. A-9
AMENDMENTS
DATE RESOLUTION AMENDMENTS

ARTICLE I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
1-101 Title
These regulations shall hereinafter be known and cited as the Subdivision Regulations
of Hickman County, Tennessee.
1-102 Authority
These subdivision regulations are adopted by the Hickman County Regional Planning
Commission (hereinafter referred to as "planning commission"), in pursuance of the
authority and powers granted by Sections 13-3-401 through 13-3-411, Tennessee
Code. Having adopted a major street or road plan for the jurisdictional area, and filed a
certified copy of the plan with the County Register of Deeds (hereinafter referred to as
"county register"), as required by Sections 13-3-402, Tennessee Code, and having held
a public hearing as indicated in Section 7-101, of these regulations and as required by
Sections 13-3-403, Tennessee Code, the planning commission has fulfilled the
requirements set forth in state law as prerequisites to the adoption of these regulations.
1-103 Jurisdiction
These subdivision regulations shall apply to all subdivisions, as herein defined, located
within Hickman County, Tennessee, except those areas located within the Centerville
regional planning jurisdiction. No land shall be subdivided within the jurisdictional area
until the subdivider submits a plat as required by these regulations, obtains planning
commission approval of the plat, and files the approved plat with the county register.
1-104 Policy and Purpose
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the planning commission to consider the
subdivision of land and development of a subdivision plat as subject to the control of the
adopted land use or community development plan (hereinafter referred to as "land
development plan") of the jurisdictional area for orderly, planned, and efficient physical
and economical development.
Land to be subdivided shall be of such character that it can be used for building
purposes without danger of health, fire, flood, or other menace.
Land shall not be subdivided until proper provisions have been made for drainage,
water, sewerage, other public utilities, and for other required public services. The
existing and proposed public improvements shall generally conform to and be properly
related to the proposals shown in the land development plan.
ART. I-1
The regulations herein shall supplement and facilitate the enforcement of the provisions
and standards contained in the Zoning Resolution of Hickman County, Tennessee
(hereinafter referred to as "zoning resolution").
These regulations are adopted for the following purposes:
A. To promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of the jurisdictional
area.
B. To guide the development of the jurisdictional area in accordance with the land
development plan, considering the suitability of nonresidential and public areas
and having regard for the most beneficial land use in such areas.
C. To provide for adequate light, air, and privacy; to secure safety from fire, flood,
and other dangers; and to prevent overcrowding of the land and undue
congestion of population.
D. To enhance the character and economic stability and encourage the orderly,
beneficial development of the jurisdictional area.
E. To conserve the value of land, buildings, and improvements throughout the
jurisdictional area and to minimize detrimental conflicts among the uses of land
and structures.
F. To guide public policy private and action providing for transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, recreational areas, and other public requirements and
facilities.
G. To provide for the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land and
buildings and the efficient traffic movement throughout the jurisdictional area.
H. To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for subdivisions and
resubdivisions; to further the orderly layout and use of land; and to insure proper
legal descriptions and proper monumenting of land.
I. To insure that public facilities are available and will have a sufficient capacity to
serve the proposed subdivision.
J. To prevent the pollution of air, streams, and ponds; to assure the adequacy of
drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table; and to preserve the integrity,
stability, beauty, and value of the jurisdictional area.
K. To preserve the natural beauty and topography of the jurisdictional area, and to
insure appropriate development with regard to these natural features.
L. To provide for open spaces through efficient design and layout of the land,
including the use of average density in providing for minimum width and area of
lots, while preserving the density of land as established in any zoning ordinance.
M. To encourage subdivision design which would maximize the conservation of all
forms of energy.
ART. I-2
1-105 Interpretation, Conflict, and Severability
1-105.1 Interpretation
These regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of health, safety, and general welfare.
1-105.2 Conflict with Public and Private Provisions
1-105.201 Public Provisions
 These regulations are not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul
any other ordinance, rule, or regulation, statute, or other provision of law.
Where any provision of these regulations imposes restrictions different
from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation, or other
provision of law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose
higher standards shall control.
1-105.202 Private Provisions
These regulations are not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant,
or any other private agreement or restriction; provided, that where these
regulations are more restrictive or impose higher standards than such
easement, covenant, or other private agreement or restriction, the
requirements of these regulations shall govern.
Where any private provision exceeds the standards set forth herein, such
shall be considered a private contract between the parties of interest, and
as such is beyond the jurisdiction of the planning commission.
1-105.3 Severability
If any part or provision of these regulations or application thereof to any person
or circumstances is adjudged invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
judgment shall be confined in its operation to the part, provision, or application
directly involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall have been
rendered and shall not affect or impair the validity of the remainder of these
regulations or the application thereof to other persons or circumstances. The
planning commission hereby declares that it would have enacted the remainder
of these regulations without any such part, provision, or application.
1-106 Saving Provision
These regulations shall not be construed as abating any action now pending under, or
by virtue of prior subdivision regulations; or as discontinuing, abating, modifying, or
altering any penalty accruing or about to accrue; or as affecting the liability of any
person; or as waiving any right of the planning commission under any section or
provision existing at the time of adoption of these regulations; or as vacating or
annulling any rights obtained by any person by lawful action of the planning
commission, except as expressly provided otherwise in these regulations.
ART. I-3
1-106.1 Previously Approved Subdivisions
1-106.101 Unexpired Preliminary Approval
The approval granted on any plat prior to the effective date of these
regulations shall remain in force and effect for the time period stipulated
by the regulations under which the approval was first granted.
1-106.102 Expired Preliminary Approval
In any instance in which the period of preliminary approval shall have
passed with some portion of the subdivision not having received final
approval, and the applicant wishes an extension of the preliminary
approval, the planning commission may:
(1) permit the remaining portion of the subdivision to be constructed
and to receive approval under provisions set forth in the regulations
whereby preliminary approval was originally granted, or
(2) stipulate that the plat is null and void and that a new plat be
presented subject to the provisions of these regulations.
In making this determination, the planning commission shall consider all
pertinent facts available to it. The current state and active pursuit of
construction and development activities within the subdivision shall be
given due consideration in the course of the planning commission's
deliberation on this question.
1-107 Amendments
1-107.1 Enactment
For the purpose of providing for the public health, safety, and general welfare the
planning commission may from time to time amend these regulations. Before the
adoption of any amendment to these regulations, a public hearing thereon shall
be held by the planning commission, as required by Chapter 3, Title 13,
Tennessee Code, at least thirty (30) days notice of the time and place of which
shall be given in a newspaper of general circulation.
1-107.2 Codification and Distribution
Subsequent to the adoption of any amendment to these regulations, such
amendment shall be incorporated into the text of these regulations in the
following manner.
1. Replacement pages shall be prepared incorporating the new or changed
language. Each such new or replacement page shall have the
amendment number and shall be dated so as to indicate the date of the
last revision of the page.
ART. I-4
2. In Article VII, of these regulations, each adopted amendment shall be
numbered consecutively and printed on pages separate from any other
amendment and in a manner which fully states any language deleted from
these regulations and any language added and the place in the text of
each such change.
1-108 Resubdivision of Land
1-108.1 Procedures for Resubdivision
If any change in an approved or recorded subdivision plat would affect the layout
of any public street, alley, or road (hereinafter referred to as public way) shown
on such plat, or area reserved thereon for public use, or any lot line, or if it would
affect any map, plan, or plat legally recorded before the adoption of any
subdivision regulations, such amendment shall be approved by the planning
commission by the same procedure, rules, and regulations as for a subdivision.
1-108.2 Procedures for Subdivision Where Future Resubdivision Is Foreseen
Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided and the subdivision plat shows one or
more lots containing more than one acre of land or double the minimum required
area for any zoning district in which the lot is located, and the planning
commission has reason to believe that any such lot(s) will be resubdivided into
smaller building sites, the planning commission may require that the subdivision
and development of such parcel of land allow for the future opening of public
ways and the ultimate extension of adjacent public ways. The planning
commission may also require that dedications providing for the future opening
and extension of such public ways be indicated on the plat.
1-109 Conditions
Regulation of the subdivision of land and the attachment of reasonable conditions to
land subdivision are exercises of valid police power delegated by the state to the
planning commission. The developer has the duty of compliance with reasonable
conditions imposed by the planning commission for design, dedication, improvement,
and restrictive use of the land so as to provide for the physical and economical
development of the jurisdictional area and for the safety and general welfare of future
plot owners in the subdivision and of the community at large.
1-110 Vacation of Plats
Any plat or any part of any plat may be vacated by the owner of the premises, at any
time before the sale of any lot described therein, by a written instrument, to which a
copy of such plat shall be attached, declaring the plat or part of the plat to be vacated.
The planning commission shall follow the same procedure for approval of plats. The
planning commission may reject any such instrument which abridges or destroys any
public rights in any of its public uses, improvements, or public ways. Such an
instrument shall be executed, acknowledged, or approved, and duly recorded or filed;
the instrument shall operate to void the recorded plat and divest all public rights in the
public ways and public grounds and all dedications laid out or described in such plat.
When any lot or lots have been sold the plat may be vacated in the manner herein
provided only if all of the owners of lots in such platted area join in the execution of such
writing.
ART. I-5
1-111 Variances
1-111.1 General
If the planning commission finds that extraordinary hardships or practical
difficulties may result from strict compliance with these regulations, a variance
from these regulations may be granted; provided, such variance shall not have
the effect of nullifying the general intent and purpose of these regulations and
provided, further, that the planning commission shall not recommend variations
unless it shall make findings based upon written evidence presented to it in each
specific case that:
1. the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public safety,
health, or welfare, or be injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located;
2. the conditions upon which the request for a variance is based are unique
to the property for which the variance is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property;
3. because of the particular physical surroundings, shape, or topographical
condition of the specific property involved, a particular hardship (not selfimposed) to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere
inconvenience, if the strict letter of these regulations were carried out; and
4. the variance will not in any manner alter the provisions of the land
development plan, the major street or road plan, or any zoning ordinance.
Where the planning commission concludes that the purpose of these regulations
may be specifically served to an equal or greater extent by an alternative
proposal, condition, or circumstance, if may approve other variations to these
regulations.
1-111.2 Procedures
Each and every variance or modification of these subdivision regulations sought
by a subdivider shall be specifically applied for in the numerical order of the
subdivision regulations, in writing by the subdivider in letter form. Any condition
shown on the plat which would require a variance or modification shall constitute
a grounds for disapproval of the plat unless such special application for
modification variance is made. In approving any variation from these regulations
the planning commission shall state fully in the minutes the grounds for the
variation and all of the facts upon which the decision is made.
1-111.3 Conditions
In approving variations, the planning commission may impose such conditions as
in its judgment will secure substantially the objectives, standards, and
requirements of the regulations.
ART. I-6
1-112 Enforcement, Violation, and Penalties
1-112.1 General
1-112.101 Authority
The enforcement of these regulations and the penalties for violations are
provided pursuant to Title 13, Tennessee Code.
1-112.102 Enforcing Officer
It shall be the duty of the Building Commissioner (hereinafter referred to
as "the enforcing officer)" to enforce these regulations and to bring to the
attention of legal council any violations or lack of compliance herewith.
1-112.103 Recording of Plats
Pursuant to Sections 13-3-402, Tennessee Code, no plat of a subdivision
of land within the jurisdictional area shall be received or recorded by the
county register until the plat has received final approval of the planning
commission in accordance with these regulations, and such approval has
been endorsed in writing on the plat by the planning commission secretary
in the manner prescribed by Section 2-105, of these regulations.
The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other
document used in the process of selling or transfer shall not exempt any
owner or agent violating the provisions of the preceding paragraph from
the penalties or remedies provided in Subsections 1-112.2 and 1-112.3, of
these regulations.
1-112.104 Use of Unapproved Plats
Pursuant to Sections 13-3-410, Tennessee Code, no owner or agent of
the owner of any land shall convey such land contrary to the provisions
stated herein.
The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other
document used in the process of selling or transfer shall not exempt any
owner or agent violating the provisions of the preceding paragraph from
the penalties or remedies provided in Subsections 1-122.2 and 1-112.3, of
these regulations.
1-112.105 Metes and Bounds Subdivisions
The subdivision of any lot or parcel of land by use of metes or bounds
description without complying with the plat provisions of these regulations
shall not be permitted. All such described subdivisions shall be subject to
all of the requirements of these regulations.
ART. I-7
1-112.106 False Statements About Roads
Pursuant to Sections 13-3-410, Tennessee Code, no owner or agent of
the owner of any land shall falsely represent to a prospective purchaser of
real estate that roads or streets will be built or constructed by any city,
county, or any other political subdivision.
1-112.107 Public Ways and Utilities
 Pursuant to Sections 13-3-410, Tennessee Code, the planning
commission shall not nor shall any public authority accept, lay out, open,
improve, grade, pave, or light any public way, lay or authorize the laying of
water mains or sewers, or construct or authorize the construction of other
facilities or utilities in any public way located within the jurisdictional area
unless such way shall have been accepted, opened, or otherwise received
the legal status of a public way prior to the attachment of the planning
commission's jurisdiction, or unless such way corresponds in its location
and lines to a way shown on a subdivision plat approved by the planning
commission or on a public way plat made by the planning commission.
However, the governing body may override the planning commission as
provided in Title 13, Tennessee Code.
In case of any state highway constructed or to be constructed within the
jurisdictional area with state funds as a part of the state highway system,
the submission to the planning commission shall be by the Tennessee
Commissioner of Transportation, who shall have the power to overrule the
disapproval of the planning commission.
1-112.108 Building Permits
No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any building or
structure located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in violation of any
provision of these regulations.
1-112.109 Access to Lots by Public Way or Private Easement Only
 Pursuant to Sections 13-3-411, Tennessee Code, no building permit shall
be issued and no building or structure shall be erected on any lot within
the jurisdictional area, unless the public way giving access to the lot upon
which the building or structure is proposed to be placed shall have been
accepted or opened or shall have otherwise received the legal status of a
public way as provided by law, or unless such lot fronts upon a permanent
easement which conforms to the provisions set forth in these regulations.
Provided, further, that when a permanent easement to a public way is
used as access to a lot or tract of land having been or being separated by
deed or plat from other property, such easement shall be at least fifty (50)
feet in width from and after the time of adoption of these regulations and
shall not be used to provide access to more than five (5) lots or tracts of
land.
ART. I-8
All lots must be a minimum of five (5) acres each to be created on such
easement. (See Hickman County Zoning, Article II). “The Private
Driveway Certification” as shown in Section 5-104.3 is required.
The above section shall not be construed to prohibit the development of
buildings on lots or tracts with permanent access provided by private ways
when such development is in the form of condominium ownership of such
private improvements which have been approved by the planning
commission and will be in private ownership and control in perpetuity.
1-112.2 Penalties for Violations
1-112.201 Recording of Unapproved Plats
No county register shall receive, file, or record a plat of a subdivision
within the planning region without the approval of the planning commission
as required in Sections 13-3-402, Tennessee Code, and any county
register so doing shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as
other misdemeanors as provided by law. Any county register, receiving,
filing or recording a plat of a subdivision in violation of Subsection 1-
112.103, of these regulations, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of the
above cited provision of the Tennessee Code.
1-112.202 Use of Unapproved Plats
Section 13-3-410, Tennessee Code, provides that whoever being the
owner or agent of the owner of any land transfers, or sells or agrees to sell
or negotiates to sell such land by reference to or exhibition of or by other
use of a plat of subdivision of such land without having submitted a plat of
such subdivision to the planning commission and obtained its approval as
required before such plat be recorded in the office of the appropriate
county register, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as
other misdemeanors as provided by law; and the description by metes and
bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document used in the
process of selling or transferring shall not exempt the transaction from
such penalties. The city through its city attorney may enjoin such transfer
or sale or agreement by action of injunction.
1-112.203 Illegal Buildings
Any building or structure erected or to be erected in violation of the
subdivision regulations shall be deemed an unlawful building or structure;
and the building inspector or the city manager or other official designated
by the chief legislative body may bring action or enjoin such erection or
cause it to be vacated or removed as provided in Section 13-3-411,
Tennessee Code.
1-112.3 Civil Enforcement
1-112.301 General
 Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken in equity to prevent
any violation of these regulations, to prevent unlawful construction, to
recover damages; to restrain, correct, or abate a violation, or to prevent
ART. I-9
ART. I-10
illegal occupancy of a building, structure, or premise; these remedies shall
be in addition to the penalties described in Subsection 1-112.2, of these
regulations.
 1-112.302 Specific Statutory Remedies
 a. Use of Unapproved Plats -- The county, through its attorney or
other official designated by the county commission, may enjoin by
action for injunction any transfer of, sale of, or agreement to sell
any land in violation of Subsection 1-112.104, of these regulations.
 b. Erection of Unlawful Buildings - Where any building or structure is
erected or being erected on any lot in violation of the road or
easement frontage requirements of Subsection 1-112.109, of these
regulations, the enforcing officer or the county attorney or other
official designated by the county commission may bring action to
enjoin such erection or cause the building or structure to be
vacated or removed.
1-113 Repeal of Previous Regulations
Upon the adoption and effective date of these regulations any existing subdivision
regulations within the Hickman County planning region, as amended, are hereby
repealed. 

ARTICLE II
PROCEDURES FOR PLAT APPROVAL
2-101 General Procedure
2-101.1 Plat Approval Requirements
Before any contract is executed for the sale of any parcel of land which is
proposed to be subdivided and before any permit for the erection of any structure
in a proposed subdivision shall be granted, the subdividing owner or his
authorized agent shall apply for and secure the planning commission's approval
of the proposed subdivision in accordance with the procedures of this article.
2-101.2 Classification of Subdivisions
The planning commission shall classify each subdivision proposal as either major
or minor as defined herein.
2-101.201 Review Procedure
The subdivider shall follow the procedure described below in order to
secure plat approval.
a. Minor Subdivision
 (i) Preapplication conference with the enforcing officer including
submittal of a scale drawing or survey of the proposed
subdivision for preliminary discussion and review.
 (ii) Securing of approvals from other public agencies and any
affected utility districts or companies.
(iii) Submittal of a final plat, prepared, in accordance with the
specifications in Section 5-104, herein, for approval by the
planning commission.
b. Major Subdivision
 (i) Preapplication conference on the subdivision with the
planning commission and/or staff assistant to the planning
commission, generally including a sketch plat, and
discussion of the proposed area to be subdivided.
 (ii) Submittal of a preliminary plat, prepared in accordance with
Section 5-102, herein for planning commission approval.
ART. II-1
 (iii) Securing of approval from other public agencies.
 (iv) Submittal of the final subdivision plat, prepared in
accordance with Section 5-104, herein for planning
commission approval.
2-101.3 Official Submission Date
For the purpose of these regulations, for both major and minor subdivisions, the
date of the regular meeting of the planning commission at which the public
hearing on the final subdivision plat, including any adjourned date thereof, is
closed, shall constitute the official submittal date of the plat at which the statutory
period required in Section 13-3-404, Tennessee Code, for formal approval or
disapproval of the plat shall commence.
2-101.4 Policy on Flood Prone Areas
In determining the appropriateness of land subdivision at any site containing a
flood prone area, the planning commission, in reviewing any plat, shall consider
the policy and purpose set forth in Section 1-104, of these regulations, and,
additionally:
1. the danger to life and property due to the increased flood heights or
velocities, either potential or actual, caused by subdivision fill, roads, and
intended uses;
2. the danger that intended uses or improvements may be swept onto other
lands or downstream to the injury of others;
3. the adequacy of proposed water supply, sanitation, and drainage systems,
and the ability of these systems to function under flood conditions;
4. the susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage
and the effect of such damage upon the individual owner;
5. the importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the
community at large;
6. the requirements of the subdivision for a waterfront location;
7. the availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding for the
proposed subdivision and land uses;
8. the compatibility of the proposed uses with existing development or
development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
9. the relationship of the proposed subdivision to the land development plan
and the floodplain management program for the area;
10. the safety of access to the property for emergency vehicles in times of
flood;
ART. II-2
11. the expected heights, duration, velocity, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters expected at the site;
12. the costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, public ways, and
bridges; and
13. the effect of the proposed subdivision upon the planning commission's
participation in the National Flood Insurance Program, if such planning
commission is, or elects to be, in the program.
No subdivision or part thereof shall be approved by the planning commission if
proposed levees, fills, structures, or other features within the subdivision will
individually or collectively, increase flood flows, heights, duration, or damages.
The regulatory limits (the one hundred-year flood level) shall be determined from
the latest approved flood study for the jurisdictional area, and any subsequent
revisions thereto. Specific engineering studies are to be formulated by the
developer in those areas in which flood data are not currently available, if
deemed necessary by the planning commission.
In any instance in which the planning commission determines that a proposed
subdivision may affect the flood height, velocity, or duration in any flood prone
area outside its jurisdiction, the commission shall take all actions necessary and
proper to ensure the coordinated review of the development with the appropriate
governmental agencies of the affected area.
In approving plans for subdivision of land containing flood prone areas, the
planning commission shall ensure that development will proceed in such a way
that property lying within any floodway, as defined by these regulations, will be
maintained in a manner as prescribed by any zoning ordinance. The planning
commission shall also ensure that development within any floodway fringe area
(within the one hundred-year flood level) will be protected adequately against
potential flood hazards by the methods prescribed in Article IV, of these
regulations.
The planning commission shall disapprove the subdivision of any land containing
a flood prone area when the commission determines that subdivision plans are
not consistent with the policy stated in this section.
2-101.5 Special Provisions Governing Unit Ownership (Condominium)
Subdivisions
2-101.501 General Provisions
a. Intent -- This section is intended to augment the general legislation
of Sections 66-27-101 through 66-27-123, Tennessee Code,
entitled "Horizontal Property Act," by providing supplemental rules
and regulations for the implementation of the act, as specifically
authorized in Section 66-27-121, Tennessee Code.
ART. II-3
b. Applicability -- Whenever a developer, the sole owner, or the coowners of a building or buildings expressly declare through the
submission of a master deed, lease, or plat their desire to submit
their property to a regime, as established and provided by Sections
66-27-101 through 66-27-123, Tennessee Code, wherein there is
established a horizontal property regime, each such condominium
or horizontal property regime created under the authority of these
provisions for the purpose of sale or transfer of real property is
subject to the provisions of these regulations.
2-101.502 Submission of Plat Required
Prior to the sale or transfer of any property incorporated in the property
regime, the developer, sole owner, or co-owners of such property shall
submit to the planning commission a subdivision plat of such property in
the manner prescribed by this article; such plat, if approved, shall be filed
with the county register in the manner prescribed by this article.
2-101.503 Determination of Subdivision Type
 Condominium subdivisions shall be classified by the planning commission
during the plat review process as either horizontal condominiums or
vertical condominiums as defined in Article VI, of these regulations.
2-101.504 Procedure
An applicant seeking approval of a condominium subdivision shall proceed
through the normal procedure for subdivision approval, as set forth in this
article.
2-101.505 Contents of Plans and Documents
The plats, plans, and documents submitted by an applicant seeking
approval of condominium subdivision shall conform with the specifications
set forth in Article V, of these regulations.
2-101.506 One or Two Lot Subdivision
a. Under the authority granted by Section 13-3-402, Tennessee Code
Annotated, a final plat submitted for a one or two lot subdivision
may be endorsed in writing on the plat by the secretary of the
planning commission without the approval of the planning
commission, upon certification by the technical staff of the planning
commission that the subdivision complies with the requirements as
set forth in the Subdivision Regulations for Hickman County.
b. The planning commission technical staff shall review one or two lot
subdivisions where all public improvements are already installed.
(Any construction, installation, or improvement of public
improvements shall require the submission of a preliminary plat.).
For one or two lot subdivisions, the Certificate of Approval of
Streets shall not be required except for the need of right-of-way
dedications; however, all other required and applicable certifications
shall be included on the submitted plat.
ART. II-4
c. A concrete monument shall only be required on one of the front
corners with iron pins required on the remaining corners.
d. A fire hydrant shall not be required for one-lot subdivisions.
e. In the case where a property owner is adding a piece of land for
agricultural or other uses, excluding any residential, commercial or
industrial uses, and no buildings, except agricultural accessory
buildings, will be constructed, the one-lot subdivision plat is
required to show the following data:
(1) A line between the existing lot and the added property as a
dashed line;
(2) Iron pins on each of the four corners of the added piece of
property;
 (3) Date, graphic scale and north point;
 (4) The name and addresses of the owners and the tax map
and parcel numbers of the existing lot and the added piece
of property;
 (5) The name and address of the surveyor preparing the plat;
 (6) The acreage of the added piece of property and total
acreage of the new tract of land;
(7) The names of all adjoining property owners or names of
adjoining subdivisions, including tax map and parcel
numbers;
 (8) The location of existing water courses, and flood problems
checked using an official TVA or Corps of Engineers Flood
Study map, and flooded areas outlined, if applicable;
 (9) A location sketch map;
 (10) The plat certificates for Ownership and Dedication; Survey
Accuracy; and Approval for Recording;
2-102 Sketch Plat (Major Subdivisions Only)
2-102.1 Purpose of Sketch Plat
The applicant shall submit a sketch plat to the planning commission for approval.
The sketch plat is to be a concept plan for design purposes and should be used
to discover all factors which may have an impact on the proposed development
and to advise the subdivider of various possibilities before substantial amounts of
time and money have been invested in a detailed proposal which may contain
elements contrary to these regulations.
ART. II-5
2-102.2 Sketch Plat Requirements
The sketch plat shall include the information set forth in Section 5-101.
2-102.3 Approval of Sketch Plat
When a sketch plat is submitted for planning commission approval, the number
of copies required and timing of the submission shall be as for a preliminary plat.
Approval of the plat shall constitute authorization to prepare detailed plans and
specifications.
2-102.4 Expiration of Approval
The approval of the sketch plat shall expire within one (1) year if no further
progress is made toward the development. An extension may be granted upon
proper application.
2-103 Preliminary Plat (Major Subdivisions Only)
2-103.1 Application Procedure and Requirements
The applicant shall file with the planning commission a preliminary plat. The
failure of the applicant to satisfy the requirements of this section with full and
correct information shall be cause for disapproval of a preliminary plat. The
preliminary plat shall be prepared in accordance with Section 5-102, and:
1. be presented at the office of the enforcing officer at least 15 days prior to a
regular (officially opened) meeting of the planning commission;
2. include all land which the applicant proposes to subdivide and all land
immediately adjacent, extending two hundred (200) feet therefrom, or of
that directly opposite thereto, extending two hundred (200) feet from the
public way frontage of such opposite land. The lot pattern of surrounding
development shall be shown within that area located within two hundred
(200) feet of the proposed development;
3. be accompanied by a minimum of 5 copies of the preliminary plat as
described herein; and
4. be accompanied by a minimum of 4 copies of construction plans as
described in Section 5-103, of these regulations.
2-103.2 Administrative Review
An administrative review meeting shall be conducted on the preliminary plat,
construction plans, and any exhibits submitted in conformance with these
regulations. This review shall include the staff assistant to the planning
commission and any other appropriate governmental representative. The review
shall be held prior to the regularly scheduled planning commission meeting at
which the plat is to be reviewed. The findings of the review committee shall be
presented to the planning commission.
ART. II-6
With expert assistance, as necessary, the subdivider shall prepare a report, on
any proposed subdivision containing or abutting a floodprone area. Such report
shall estimate the discharge of the regulatory flood; determine the specific
flooding threat at the site of the proposed subdivision; and indicate whether the
subdivision is located in a floodway or floodway fringe area by:
1. calculation of water surface elevations and regulatory flood protection
elevations based upon a hydraulic analysis of the capacity of the stream
channel and overbank areas to convey the regulatory flood;
2. computation of the floodway required to convey the regulatory flood
without increasing natural flood heights of the regulatory flood more than
one (1) foot at any point; and
3. unless otherwise established, computation of increase in flood heights
caused by any encroachment shall be based upon the reasonable
assumption that there will be an equal degree of encroachment on both
sides of the stream within that reach. No increase in flood storage
attributable to encroachments on the floodplain of any river or stream shall
be permitted in any one reach or for the cumulative effect of several
reaches.
2-103.3 Notice of Hearing
The planning commission shall hold a hearing as required by Chapters 3 and 4,
of Title 13, Tennessee Code, on each plat brought before it.
2-103.4 Preliminary Approval
After the planning commission has reviewed the preliminary plat, construction
plans, exhibits, and the results of administrative review, the applicant shall be
advised of any required changes. The planning commission shall approve,
conditionally approve, or disapprove the preliminary plat within thirty (30) days
after date of the regular meeting of the planning commission at which the hearing
on preliminary approval, including adjourned date thereof, is closed.
A certificate of preliminary approval shall be issued by the secretary of the
planning commission, upon demand, and the applicant may proceed to apply for
final subdivision plat approval in the manner prescribed by Section 2-104, of
these regulations.
After the planning commission approves, conditionally approves, or disapproves
the preliminary plat, one copy of the proposed preliminary plat shall be returned
to the developer with the date of approval, conditional approval, or disapproval
thereon. If a preliminary plat is disapproved the planning commission shall state
specific reasons for disapproval which shall be entered into the minutes of the
meeting.
Before the planning commission approves a preliminary plat showing land for any
public use, the planning commission shall obtain approval for the land reservation
from the appropriate governmental agency.
ART. II-7
2-103.5 Public Improvements
The planning commission may require that all public improvements be installed
and dedicated prior to the signing of the final subdivision plat by the secretary of
the planning commission. If the planning commission does not require that all
public improvements be installed and dedicated prior to signing of the final
subdivision plat, an adequate performance bond shall be approved. The amount
of such bond shall be established by the planning commission based upon the
recommendation of the appropriate governmental representative or by receipt of
cost bids from two (2) or more independent contracting firms equal to the cost of
all necessary improvements plus an additional 10 percent to cover inflation shall
be added. It is the subdivider's responsibility to furnish these estimates to the
planning commission.
Such bond shall be submitted by the applicant at the time of application for final
subdivision plat approval. The planning commission shall require the applicant to
indicate on the plat all public ways and improvements to be dedicated; all districts
for water, fire, and utility improvements which shall be required to be established
or extended; and any other special requirements deemed necessary by the
planning commission in order for the subdivision plat to conform to the major
street or road plan and the land development plan for the jurisdictional area.
2-103.6 Effective Period of Preliminary Approval
The approval of a preliminary plat shall be effective for a period of 12 months, at
the end of which time final approval of the subdivision plat must have been
obtained from the planning commission, although the plat need not have been
signed and filed with the county register. Any plat not receiving final approval
within the period of time set forth herein shall be null and void, and the developer
shall be required to submit a new plat for approval subject to any zoning
provisions and the subdivision regulations currently in effect. Prior to the
expiration of the preliminary approval and upon proper request by the developer,
the approval may be extended for one (1) additional year if the commission
deems such to be advisable based upon progress made in developing the
subdivision.
2-103.7 Zoning Regulations
Every plat shall conform to any existing zoning regulations and subdivision
regulations applicable at the time of proposed final approval, except that any plat
which has received preliminary approval shall be exempt from any subsequent
amendments to such zoning ordinance or these regulations rendering the plat
nonconforming as to bulk, use, or development standards, provided, that final
approval is obtained within the effective period of preliminary approval set forth in
Subsection 2-103.6, herein.
ART. II-8
2-104 Final Subdivision Plat (Minor and Major Subdivision)
2-104.1 Application Procedure and Requirements
A subdivider shall file with the planning commission a final plat. The plat shall be
prepared in accordance with Section 5-104, and:
1. include the entire subdivision, or section thereof, for which final approval is
sought;
2. be accompanied by a minimum of 5 copies of the final subdivision plat as
described herein.
3. comply substantially with the preliminary plat, where such plat is required;
4. be presented at the office of the enforcing officer at least 15 days prior to
the regular meeting of the commission at which it is to be considered;
5. be accompanied by formal irrevocable offers of dedication to the public of
all public ways and uses, utilities, parks, and easements, in a form
approved by legal counsel, as applicable. (The subdivision plat shall be
marked with a notation indicating the formal offers of dedication as shown
in Article V, of these regulations.);
6. be accompanied by a performance bond, if required, in a form satisfactory
to legal counsel and in an amount adequate to complete the required
improvements. It shall include provisions that the principal of the bond
shall comply with all the terms of the resolution of final subdivision plat
approval, as determined by the planning commission, including, but
without limitations, the performance of all required subdivision and offsite
improvements, and that all improvements and land included in the
irrevocable offers of dedication shall be dedicated to the planning
commission free and clear of all liens and encumbrances on the
premise(s);
7. be accompanied by written assurance from any public utility companies
serving the area of the subdivision that necessary utilities will be installed
and by proof that the applicant has submitted petitions in writing for the
creation or extension of any utility districts as required by the planning
commission upon preliminary plat approval; and
8. be accompanied, if the final plat contains open space, or recreational
facilities, of if any portion of the site is in common ownership, by the
following documentation for approval by the planning commission:
(a) plans for improvement and maintenance of the open space or
facilities located thereon;
ART. II-9
(b) articles of incorporation and bylaws of the co-owners association or
other legal entity (where open space or facilities are to be deeded
to a co-owners association by similar organization acting on behalf
of the joint owners of said property) charged with improving or
maintaining the open space or facilities, and declaration of
covenants and restrictions pertaining to each and every property
within the subdivision; and
(c) declaration of covenants and restrictions pertaining to open space
and facilities which assure the continued use of said facilities for the
purpose intended, where open space or facilities are to be retained
by the developer.
2-104.2 Endorsement of Notations
The notations and certifications required by Subsection 5-104.3, of these
regulations, to appear upon the final plat shall be endorsed by appropriate
officials and other persons prior to application for final subdivision plat approval,
except that the certificate of planning commission approval shall be signed at the
time specified in Section 2-105, of these regulations.
2-104.3 Hearing and Decision on Final Plat
The planning commission shall hold a hearing as required by Section 13-3-404
and 13-4-304, Tennessee Code, on each final plat brought before it. The
planning commission shall, within 60 days after submission of the plat, approve,
modify, or disapprove the final subdivision plat by resolution, which shall set forth
in detail any conditions to which the approval is subject, or reasons for
disapproval. In no event shall the period of time stipulated by the planning
commission for completion of required improvements exceed one (1) year from
the date of final resolution.
Failure of the planning commission to act upon a plat within the prescribed time
shall be deemed approval of the plat, and in such event, a certificate of approval,
entitling the subdivider to proceed as specified in Subsection 2-104.4 and Section
2-105, of these regulations, shall be issued, upon demand, by the secretary of
the planning commission. The applicant, however, may agree to an extension of
the time for planning commission review.
One (1) copy of the final subdivision plat shall be returned to the subdivider with
the date of approval, conditional approval, or disapproval noted thereon.
2-104.4 Vested Rights
No vested rights shall accrue to any plat by reason of preliminary or final
approval until the actual signing of the plat by the secretary of the planning
commission. All requirements, conditions, or regulations adopted by the planning
commission, applicable to the particular subdivision or to all subdivisions
generally, shall be deemed a condition of approval for any subdivision prior to the
time of the signing of the final plat by the secretary of the planning commission.
Where the planning commission has required the installation of improvements
prior to the signing of the final plat, the planning commission shall not modify
unreasonably the conditions set forth in the resolution of final approval.
ART. II-10
ART. II-11
2-105 Signing and Recording of Subdivision Plat
 2-105.1 Signing of Plat
 1. When a bond is required, the secretary of the planning commission shall
endorse approval on the plat after the bond has been approved by the
planning commission and after all the conditions of the resolution
pertaining to the plat have been satisfied.
 2. When installation of improvements is required, the secretary of the
planning commission shall endorse approval on the plat after all conditions
of the resolution have been satisfied and all improvements satisfactorily
completed. There shall be written evidence that the required public
facilities have been installed in a manner satisfactory to the planning
commission as shown on certifications by the appropriate governmental
representative(s) that necessary land dedications and improvements have
been accomplished.
 3. When the conditions of this section are satisfied, the secretary shall sign
the permanent reproducible original of the subdivision plat.
 2-105.2 Recording of Plat
 It shall be the responsibility of the enforcing officer to file plat with the county
register's office within 7 days of the date of signature. Simultaneously, with the
filing of the plat, the enforcing officer shall record the agreement of dedication
together with such legal documents as shall be required to be recorded by legal
counsel.
 2-105.3 Sectionalizing Major Subdivision Plats
 Prior to granting final approval of a major subdivision plat, the planning
commission may permit the plat to be divided into two (2) or more sections and
may impose such conditions upon the filing of each section as it may deem
necessary to assure the orderly development of the subdivision.
 The planning commission may require that a performance bond be in such
amount as is commensurate with the section or sections of the plat to be filed
and may defer the remaining required performance bond principal amount until
the remaining sections of the plat are offered for filing. The developer also may
file irrevocable offers to dedicate public ways and improvements in the section
offered to be filed and defer filing offers of dedication for the remaining sections
until such sections, subject to any conditions imposed by the planning
commission, shall be granted concurrently with final approval of the plat. Such
authorized sections must contain at least ten (10) percent of the total number of
lots contained in the proposed plat unless a specific waiver of this requirement is
granted by the planning commission. 

ARTICLE III
ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS
3-101 Improvements and Performance Bond
3-101.1 Completion of Improvements
Before the final subdivision plat is signed by the planning commission officer
specified in Subsection 2-105.1, of these regulations, all applicants shall
complete, in accordance with the planning commission's decision and to the
satisfaction of the appropriate governmental representative, all public way,
sanitary, and other improvements, including lot improvements on the individual
lots of the subdivision, as required in these regulations and approved by the
planning commission, and shall dedicate such improvements to the appropriate
governing body free and clear of all liens and encumbrances on the property and
public improvements thus dedicated.
3-101.2 Surety Instrument
The planning commission at its discretion may waive the requirement that the
applicant complete and dedicate all public improvements prior to the signing of
the final subdivision plat by providing that, as an alternative, the applicant post a
bond at the time of submission for final subdivision approval in an amount
estimated by the planning commission as sufficient to guarantee to the governing
body the satisfactory construction, installation, and dedication of the incompleted
portion of required improvements. (See Subsection 2-103.5).
Such performance bond shall comply with all statutory requirements and shall be
satisfactory to legal counsel as to form, sufficiency, and manner of execution, as
set forth in these regulations. The period within which required improvements
must be completed shall be specified by the planning commission in the
resolution approving the final subdivision plat and shall be incorporated in the
bond and shall not exceed two (2) years from date of final approval.
Such bond shall be approved by the planning commission as to amount and
conditions. The planning commission may, upon proof of difficulty, extend the
completion date set forth in such bond for a maximum period of one (1) additional
year. The planning commission may accept at any time during the period of such
bond a substitution of principal.
3-101.3 Temporary Improvements
The applicant shall build and pay for all costs of temporary improvements
required by the planning commission, and shall maintain them to a reasonable
satisfaction for the period specified by the planning commission. Prior to
construction of any temporary facility or improvement, the applicant shall file with
the planning commission a separate suitable bond for temporary facilities, which
shall ensure that the temporary facilities will be properly constructed, maintained,
and removed.
ART. III-1
3-101.4 Costs of Improvements
All required improvements shall be made by the applicant at his expense. Any
provisions for reimbursement by the governing body or any utility agency shall be
stipulated clearly in the provisions of any bonds.
3-101.5 Governmental Units
Governmental units to which these bonds and contract provisions apply may file,
in lieu of said contract or bond, a certified resolution or ordinance from officers or
agencies authorized to act in their behalf agreeing to comply with the provisions
of this article.
3-101.6 Failure to Complete Improvements
In subdivisions for which no performance bond has been posted, if the
improvements are not completed within the period specified by the planning
commission in the resolution approving the plat, the approval shall be deemed to
have expired. In those cases in which a performance bond has been posted and
required improvements have not been installed within the terms of such
performance bond, the planning commission thereupon may declare the bond to
be in default and require that all the improvements be installed regardless of the
extent of the building development at the time the bond is declared to be in
default.
3-101.7 Acceptance of Dedication Offers
Acceptance of formal offers of dedication of public ways, easements, and
parks shall be by formal action of the governing body. Such action shall be
in the form of a resolution recommended by the planning commission to
the governing body. The approval by the planning commission of a subdivision
plat shall not be deemed to constitute or imply an acceptance by the local
government of any public way, easement, or other ground shown on the plat.
The planning commission may require the plat to be endorsed with appropriate
notes to this effect.
3-102 Inspection of Improvements
3-102.1 General Procedure
The planning commission may provide for inspection of required improvements
during construction and ensure their satisfactory completion. If the appropriate
governmental representative finds upon inspection that any of the required
improvements have not been constructed in accordance with the governing
body's construction standards and specifications, the applicant shall be
responsible for completing the improvements to the required standards.
Whenever the cost of improvements is covered by a performance bond, the
applicant and the bonding company shall be liable severally and jointly for
completing said improvements according to specifications.
ART. III-2
3-102.2 Release or Reduction of Performance Bond
3-102.201 Certificate of Satisfactory Completion
The planning commission shall not recommend dedication of required
public improvements nor shall the planning commission release nor
reduce a performance bond until the appropriate governmental
representative submits a certificate stating that all required improvements
have been satisfactorily completed, and until the applicant's engineer or
surveyor has certified to the planning commission and the appropriate
governmental representative (through submission of a detailed "as built"
survey of the subdivision indicating location, dimensions, construction
materials, and any other information required by the planning commission)
that the layout and the line and grade of all public improvements are in
accordance with the approved construction plans for the subdivision.
Upon such approval and recommendation, the governing body, thereafter,
may accept the dedicated improvements in accordance with the
procedures set forth in Subsections 1-112.107 and 3-101.7, of these
regulations.
3-102.202 Reduction of Performance Bond
A performance bond may be reduced upon actual dedication and
acceptance of public improvements and then only to the ratio that the
public improvement dedicated bears to the total public improvements for
the plat. In no event shall a performance bond be reduced below twentyfive (25) percent of the principal amount prior to final acceptance of all
items covered under the bond.
3-103 Maintenance of Improvements
The applicant shall be required to maintain all improvements including all lot
improvements, until acceptance of the public improvements by the governmental body.
The applicant may be required to file a maintenance bond with the planning commission
prior to dedication, in an amount considered adequate by the appropriate governmental
representative and in a form satisfactory to legal counsel in order to assure the
satisfactory condition of the required improvements, including all lot improvements, for a
period of one (1) year after the date of acceptance of the public improvements by the
planning commission.
3-104 Deferral or Waiver of Required Improvements
The planning commission may defer or waive at the time of final approval, subject to
appropriate conditions, the provision of any or all such improvements as, in its
judgment, are not requisite in the interest of the public health, safety, and general
welfare, or which are inappropriate because of inadequacy or lack of connecting
facilities.
Whenever it is deemed necessary by the planning commission to defer the construction
of any improvement required herein because of incompatible grades, future planning,
inadequate or lack of connecting facilities, or other reasons, the developer shall either
ART. III-3
pay his share of the costs of the future improvements to the planning commission prior
to signing of the final subdivision plat by the appropriate governmental representative(s)
or post a bond or other surety instrument ensuring completion of said improvements
upon demand of the planning commission.
3-105 Escrow Deposits for Lot Improvements
3-105.1 Acceptance of Escrow Funds
Whenever, by reason of the season of the year, any lot improvements required
by these regulations cannot be performed, the enforcing officer nevertheless may
issue a certificate of occupancy upon accepting a cash escrow deposit in an
amount to be determined by the appropriate governmental representative for the
cost of such improvements; provided, there otherwise is no danger to the health,
safety, or general welfare. The performance bond covering such lot
improvements shall remain in full force and effect.
3-105.2 Procedures on Escrow Fund
All required improvements for which escrow moneys have been accepted by the
enforcing officer at the time of issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall be
installed by the developer within a period of nine (9) months from the date of
deposit and issuance of the certificate of occupancy. In the event that the
improvements have not been installed properly at the end of the time period, the
enforcing officer shall provide written notice of two (2) weeks to the developer
requiring him to install the improvements, and in the event they are not installed
properly, in the judgment of the enforcing officer, he may request the planning
commission to proceed to install or to contract for the installation of the
necessary improvements in a sum not to exceed the amount of the escrow
deposit.
At the time of the issuance of the certificate of occupancy for which escrow
moneys are being deposited, the applicant shall obtain and file with the enforcing
officer, prior to obtaining the certificate of occupancy, a notarized statement from
the purchaser(s) of the premise authorizing the enforcing officer to install the
improvements at the end of the nine (9) month period in the event the
improvements have not been installed properly by the developer.
3-106 Issuance of Building Permits and Certificates of Occupancy
A. Where a performance bond has been required for a subdivision, or any section of
a subdivision, no certificate of occupancy for any building in the subdivision or
section thereof shall be issued prior to the completion and dedication of the
improvements to the appropriate governmental unit, as required in the planning
commission's resolution of final approval of the subdivision plat.
B. The extent of public way improvements shall be adequate for vehicular access by
the prospective occupant and by police and fire equipment prior to the issuance
of an occupancy certificate. The developer shall at the time of the dedication
submit monies in escrow to the planning commission in a sum to be determined
by the appropriate governmental representative.
ART. III-4
ART. III-5
C. No building permit shall be issued for the final ten (10) percent of lots in a
subdivision, or if ten (10) percent be less than two (2) lots, for the final two (2)
lots of a subdivision, until all public improvements required by the planning
commission's resolution of final plat approval have been fully completed,
dedicated, and accepted by the governmental body. 

ARTICLE IV
REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPROVEMENTS, RESERVATIONS, AND DESIGN
4-101 General Requirements
4-101.1 Conformance to Applicable Rules and Regulations
In addition to the requirements established herein, all subdivision plats shall
comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, resolutions, rules, or regulations,
including, but not limited to:
1. all applicable provisions of Tennessee Law, regulations, or policy;
2. any zoning ordinance, any building and housing codes, and all other
applicable laws or policies of the planning commission;
3. the adopted general plan and major road or street (public way) plan;
4. the rules of the county health department and the Tennessee Department
of Environment and Conservation;
5. the rules, as applicable, of the Federal Highway Administration or
Tennessee Department of Transportation, if the subdivision or any lot
contained therein abuts a nonlocal highway; and
6. the standards and regulations adopted by all other boards, commissions,
and agencies of the planning commission, where applicable.
Plat approval may be withheld if a subdivision is not in conformity with the above
rules or with the provisions set forth in Section 1-104, of these regulations.
4-101.2 Self-Imposed Restrictions
If the owner places restrictions on any of the land contained in the subdivision
greater than those required by any zoning ordinance or these regulations, such
restrictions or reference thereto shall be recorded with the county register on a
separate form, along with the final subdivision plat in the office of the county
register.
4-101.3 Monuments
The subdivider shall place permanent reference monuments on the subdivision
as required herein and as approved by a licensed surveyor. Monuments shall be
located and set as follows.
1. Monuments shall be located on public way right-of-way lines, at public way
intersections, and sections, and at the beginning and ending point of
curves. All monuments shall be spaced so as to be within sight of each
other.
ART. IV-1
2. The external boundaries of a subdivision shall be monumented in the field
by monuments of stone or concrete not less than two feet-six inches
(2'-6") in length; nor less than four (4) inches square or five (5) inches in
diameter; and marked on top with a cross, brass plug, iron rod, or other
durable material securely embedded. These monuments shall be placed
not more than fourteen hundred (1,400) feet apart in any straight line and
at all corners or breaks at each end of all curves, at the point where a
curve changes its radius, at all angle points in any line, and at all angle
points along a meander line, said points to be not less than twenty (20)
feet back from the bank of any river or stream, except that when such
corners or points fall within a public way or proposed future public way, the
monuments shall be placed on the side line of the public way.
3. All internal boundaries and those corners and points not referred to in the
preceding paragraph shall be monumented in the field by like monuments
as described above. Such monuments shall be placed at each end of all
curves, at a point where a river changed its radius, and at all angle points
in any line. All lot corners not falling on any of the above described points
shall be marked by iron rods, pipe, or pins at least eighteen (18) inches
long and five-eights (5/8) inch in diameter.
4. The lines of lots that extend to rivers or streams shall be monumented in
the field by iron pins at least eighteen (18) inches long and five-eights
(5/8) inch in diameter or by round or square iron bars at least eighteen
(18) inches long. Such pins shall be placed at the point of intersection of
the river or stream and lot line, with a meander line established not less
than twenty (20) feet back from the bank of the river or stream.
5. All monuments and pins shall be properly set in the ground and approved
by a licensed surveyor prior to the time the planning commission
recommends approval of the final plat or release of the bond where bond
is made in lieu of improvements.
4-101.4 Character of the Land
Land which the planning commission finds to be unsuitable for subdivision or
development due to flooding, improper drainage, steep slopes, rock formations,
adverse earth formations or topography, utility easements, or other features
which would be harmful to the safety, health, and general welfare of inhabitants
of the land and surrounding areas shall not be subdivided or developed unless
adequate methods are formulated by the developer and approved by the
planning commission, upon recommendation of any staff assistant serving the
planning commission and/or other governmental representative, if any, to solve
the problems created by the unsuitable land conditions. Such land shall be set
aside for such uses as will not involve such a danger.
Where protection against flood damage is necessary, in the opinion of the
planning commission, flood-damage protection techniques may include, as
deemed appropriate by the planning commission:
ART. IV-2
1. the imposition of any surety and deed restrictions enforceable by the
planning commission to regulate the future type and design of uses within
the flood prone areas; and
2. flood protection measures designed so as not to increase, either
individually or collectively, flood flows, height, duration, or damages, and
so as not to infringe upon the regulatory floodway.
3. installation of flood warning systems.
4. the use of fill, dikes, levees, and other protective measures.
5. the use of floodproofing measures, which may include:
(a) anchorage to resist flotation and lateral movement.
 (b) installation of watertight doors, bulkheads, shutters, or other similar
methods of closure.
(c) reinforcement of walls to resist water pressures.
 (d) use of paints, membranes, or mortars to reduce seepage through
walls.
(e) addition of mass or weight to structures to resist flotation.
(f) installation of pumps to lower water levels in structures.
(g) construction of water supply and waste treatment systems so as to
prevent the entrance of or contamination of flood waters.
(h) installation of pumps or comparable facilities for subsurface
drainage systems to relieve external foundation wall and basement
flood pressures.
(i) building design and construction to resist rupture or collapse
caused by water pressure of floating debris.
(j) installation of valves or controls on sanitary and storm drains which
permit the drains to be closed to prevent backup of sewage and
storm water into buildings or structures.
 (k) location and installation of all electrical equipment, circuits, and
appliances so that they are protected from inundation by the
regulatory flood.
(l) location of storage facilities for chemicals, explosives, buoyant
material, flammable liquids, or other toxic materials which would be
hazardous to the public health, safety, and welfare at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation, or design of such facilities to
prevent flotation of storage containers or damage to storage
containers which could result in the escape of toxic materials.
ART. IV-3
The acceptability of any flood protection methods formulated by the
subdivider or his agent shall be determined by the planning commission,
which shall be guided by the policies set forth in Section 1-104 and
Subsection 2-101.4, of these regulations.
All such flood protection measures shall be designed so as not to
increase, either individually or collectively, flood flows, heights, duration, or
damages so as not to infringe upon the regulatory floodway.
4-101.5 Subdivision Name
The proposed name of the subdivision shall not duplicate or too closely
approximate phonetically the name of any other subdivision in the area covered
by these regulations. The planning commission shall have authority to designate
the name of the subdivision which shall be determined at sketch or preliminary
plat approval.
4-101.6 Street Names
Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment with others already existing
and named, shall bear the names of existing streets. In no case shall the name
for proposed streets duplicate existing street names, irrespective of the use of
the suffix street, avenue, boulevard, drive, place or court. The planning
commission can assist the subdivider in avoiding duplication.
4-101.7 Signage
The developer shall furnish and install all roadway signs. These shall include
signs for warning, the direction of traffic and the proper labeling of streets.
Consultation with the County Road Supervision is required.
4-102 Lot Requirements
4-102.1 Lot Arrangement
4-102.101 General
The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no foreseeable
difficulties, for reasons of topography, flood hazards, or other conditions in
securing building permits to build on all lots in compliance with any zoning
ordinance and state and county public health department regulations and
in providing driveway access to buildings on such lots from an approved
public way.
4-102.102 Solar Access
Where reasonably feasible lot arrangement shall be such that building
sites will afford maximum utilization of energy conservation measures,
such as providing for solar access.
ART. IV-4
4-102.103 Lots Subject to Flood
Where a lot in any flood prone area must be improved to provide a
building site free from flooding, such improvements shall be made outside
the floodway by elevation or fill to at least the regulatory flood protection
elevation (one hundred-year flood) for a distance extending at least
twenty-five (25) feet beyond the limits of intended structures and,
additionally, extending a sufficient distance to include areas for subsurface
sewage disposal if the lot is not to be connected to a public sanitary sewer
system. Any fill shall be protected against erosion by rip-rap, vegetative
cover, or other methods deemed acceptable by the planning commission.
In nonresidential building sites outside a floodway but subject to flooding,
the use of structural floodproofing methods specified in Subsection 4-
101.4, of these regulations, as an alternative to landfill, may be approved
by the planning commission, as provided in Subsection 2-101.4, of these
regulations.
4-102.104 Lots Located on Steep Slopes
Due to the potential threat to health and safety posed by development
located on lands with slopes in excess of twenty (20) percent, the
following regulations shall apply.
a. Site Development Plan Required -- No building permit shall be
issued for a building or any lot with slopes twenty (20) percent or
over until a site plan meeting the following requirements has been
approved by the planning commission. Said site plan submitted to
and approved by the building commissioner shall show:
(i) The exact size, shape, and location of the lot,
 (ii) The proposed location of all buildings, driveways,
drainageways, and utilities,
 (iii) Proposed contours at vertical intervals of no more than five
(5) feet,
 (iv) The extent of natural tree cover and vegetation,
(v) The location of any onsite soil absorption sewage disposal
systems,
(vi) The type and location of erosion control methodology.
 (vii) The surveyor's or engineer's stamp that prepared the plan,
 (viii) Certification as to the stability of the structures and slope
and compliance with sound construction methods for areas
with steep slopes and landslide problems by a registered
civil or geotechnical engineer.
b. Site Development Standards -- The following standards shall be
used as a guide in determining the suitability of the construction
ART. IV-5
proposed for the particular site in question. The engineer's
certification required in Subsection 4-102.104, a, (viii), above, shall
address these standards.
 (i) Natural vegetation shall be preserved to the maximum extent
possible,
(ii) Natural drainageways and systems shall be maintained,
except that surface water may be diverted around a house or
slope area to a natural drain using acceptable construction
techniques,
 (iii) Development densities shall be limited to one (1) dwelling
unit per two (2) acres of land,
 (iv) Operations that increase loads, reduce slope support, and
cause instability of the slope shall be prohibited to the
maximum extent possible which will permit reasonable
development of the site. These include filling, irrigation
systems, accessory buildings, and onsite soil absorption
sewage disposal systems,
 (v) Where sanitary sewers are not available any onsite sewage
disposal system shall be shown on the site plan and located
to avoid slide-prone areas. Said system shall be approved
by the county health department prior to the planning
commission's review taking into account these requirements,
 (vi) Erosion control measures shall be employed to prevent all
soil material from leaving the site. Additionally, soil from
excavation on the site shall not be disposed as fill on a
potential slide area,
 (vii) No construction which would cut the top of the slope shall be
permitted. This shall apply as well to subdivision roads
constructed in compliance with these regulations.
4-102.2 Lot Dimensions
Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards of any zoning
ordinance, where applicable. Where lots are more than double the minimum
area required by any zoning ordinance, the planning commission may require
that such lots be arranged so as to allow further subdivision and the opening of
future public ways where they would be necessary to serve such potential lots, all
in compliance with any zoning ordinance and these regulations. Generally side
lot lines shall be at right angles to street lines or radial to curving street lines.
The minimum lot frontage on a public way shall be twenty-five (25) feet.
Dimensions of the corner lots shall be large enough to allow for erection of
buildings, observing the minimum front yard setback requirements from both
public way rights-of-way.
ART. IV-6
Depth and width of properties reserved or laid out for business, commercial, or
industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off-street parking and
loading facilities required for the type of use and development contemplated, and
as established in any zoning ordinance.
4-102.3 Building Setback Lines
In the case of electric transmission lines where easement widths are not
definitely established, a minimum building setback line from the center of the
transmission line shall be established as follows:
Voltage of Line Building Setback
 7.2 KV 15 feet 13 KV 25 feet 46 KV 37 1/2 feet 69 KV 50 feet
 161 KV 75 feet
4-102.4 Double Frontage Lots and Access to Lots
4-102.401 Double Frontage Lots
Double frontage lots shall be avoided except where necessary to provide
separation of residential development from traffic arterials, or to overcome
specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
4-102.402 Access from Arterial or Collector Public Ways
The planning commission may require that lots shall not derive access
exclusively from arterial or collector public ways. Where driveway access
from such public ways may be necessary for several adjoining lots, the
planning commission may require that the lots be served by a combined
access drive in order to limit possible traffic hazards. Driveways shall be
designed and arranged so as to avoid requiring vehicles to back onto
arterial or collector public ways.
4-102.5 Soil Preservation, Grading, Erosion Control, and Seeding
4-102.501 Soil Preservation and Final Grading
No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until final grading has been
completed in accordance with the approved construction plan and the lot
precovered with soil having an average depth of at least six (6) inches and
containing no particles over two (2) inches in diameter over the entire area
of the lot, except that portion covered by buildings or included in streets or
where the grade has not been changed or natural vegetation seriously
damaged.
Topsoil shall not be removed from residential lots or used as spoil, but
shall be redistributed so as to provide at least six (6) inches of cover on
the lots and at least four (4) inches of cover between any sidewalks and
curbs, and be stabilized by seeding or planting.
ART. IV-7
4-102.502 Lot Drainage
Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from all
buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the general
storm drainage pattern for the area which includes subsurface drainage.
Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid concentration of storm drainage
water from each lot to adjacent lots.
The planning commission reserves the right to set minimum elevations on
all floors, patios, and building equipment. This prerogative to establish
elevation exists in addition to any ordinances that refer to floodplain
elevation requirements. The content of the preceding paragraph is to give
summary review powers over any calculated or historical evidence of
storm water presence in overland or channel conditions.
The subdivision developer will insure that all artesian ground waters of a
permanent or temporary nature will be intercepted and carried away to
primary drainage conduits along swaled ditches or in underground pipes
on property line easements. Regardless of the location of property lines,
intercept will be allowed by the planning commission at the point of
artesian surfacing. The intent of this paragraph is to prevent flooding by
overland flow. The developer is obligated to perform this work upon
evidence of artesian water for a period of one (1) year following
acceptance of all roads and utilities.
Any sinkhole or natural channel which serve at any time as a means of
moving ground water into the subterrean serves will be protected by
structure as approved by the planning commission. The allowed
alternative to this is the construction of an alternative means of storm
water relief as approved by the planning commission. In any event,
location and elevation of future construction will be designated to allow for
the worst possible conditions.
4-102.503 Erosion and Sediment Control
There shall be a minimization of changes in the rate of natural erosion and
sedimentation which result from the development process. An erosion
and sediment control plan shall be presented with the construction plans
submitted in conformance with Section 5-103, of these regulations. Such
plans shall incorporate the following principals:
a. clearing and grading shall be integrated with layout design;
b. clearing shall be minimized and existing vegetation shall be
preserved to the maximum feasible degree;
 c. grading shall be strictly limited to those areas involved in current
construction activities;
d. disturbed areas shall be protected and stabilized as soon as
possible;
e. structural and vegetative measures to control the velocity and
volume of runoff shall be required;
ART. IV-8
f. sediment basins and traps shall be required as necessary;
 g. adequate maintenance of all planting and structures measures shall
be assured.
4-102.6 Debris and Waste
No cut trees, timber, debris, junk, rubbish, or other waste materials of any kind
shall be buried in any land or left or deposited on any lot or public way at the time
of the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the lot, and removal of such
waste shall be required prior to issuance of any certificate of occupancy. Neither
shall any such waste be left nor deposited in any area of the subdivision at the
time of expiration of the performance bond or dedication of public improvements,
whichever is sooner.
4-102.7 Fencing
Each subdivider or developer shall be required to furnish and install all fences
wherever the planning commission determines that a hazardous condition exists.
Such fences shall be constructed according to standards established by the
planning commission, as appropriate, and shall be noted on the final plat as to
height and required materials. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for
any affected lot until such fence improvements have been installed.
4-102.8 Water Bodies and Watercourses
If a tract being subdivided contains a water body, or portion thereof, lot lines shall
be so drawn as to distribute the entire ownership of the water body among the
fees of adjacent lots. The planning commission may approve an alternative plan
whereby the ownership of and responsibility for safe maintenance of the water
body is so placed that it will not become a governmental responsibility.
No more than ten (10) percent of the minimum area of a lot required under any
zoning ordinance may be satisfied by land which is under water. Where a
watercourse separates a buildable area of a lot from the public way by which it
has access, provisions shall be made for installation of a culvert or other
structure approved by the planning commission and no certificate of occupancy
shall be issued for a structure on such a lot until the installation is completed and
approved by the planning commission and/or the appropriate governmental
representative.
ART. IV-9
4-103 Public Ways
4-103.1 General Requirements
4-103.101 Frontage on Improved Public Ways
No subdivision shall be approved unless the area to be subdivided shall
meet the requirements for access set forth in Subsection 1-112.109, of
these regulations. If any new street construction or improvements are
involved, such shall be approved and, where public, dedicated as provided
in Articles I and III, of these regulations. Any such public way must be
suitably improved to the standards required by this article or be bonded by
a performance bond required under these regulations, with the roadway
and right-of-way widths required by this article or the major street or road
plan.
4-103.102 Grading and Improvement Plan
Public ways shall be graded and improved to conform to the standards
required by this section and shall be approved as to design and
specification by the appropriate governmental representative in
accordance with the specifications required herein. No surface shall be
applied to the base of any proposed public way prior to the approval of the
final plat of the subdivision or of the final approval of any section of the
subdivision in question without having been properly inspected.
4-103.103 Improvements in Floodable Areas
The finished elevation of proposed public ways subject to flood shall be no
more than one (1) foot below the regulatory flood protection elevation.
The planning commission may require profiles and elevations of public
ways to determine compliance with this requirement. All drainage
structures shall be sufficient to discharge flood flows without increasing
flood height. Where fill is used to bring the finished elevation of any public
way to the required elevation, such fill shall not encroach upon a floodway,
and the fill shall be protected against erosion by rip-rap, vegetative cover,
or other methods deemed acceptable by the planning commission.
4-103.104 Private Streets
There shall be no private streets platted in any subdivision. See Section
1-112.109.
4-103.105 Topography and Arrangement
a. All public ways shall be arranged so as to obtain as many of the
building sites as possible at or above the grades of the public ways.
Grades of public ways shall conform as closely as possible to the
original topography. A combination of steep grades and curves
shall not be permitted. Specific design standards are contained in
Subsection 4-103.2, of these regulations.
ART. IV-10
b. The use of public ways running in a east-west direction and lots on
a north-south axis is encouraged for energy conservation of
developments.
c. All public ways shall be properly integrated with the existing and
proposed system of public ways and dedicated rights-of-way as
established on the major street or road plan or the land
development plan.
d. All public ways shall be properly related to special traffic
generators, such as industries, business districts, schools,
churches, and shopping areas or centers; to population densities;
and to the pattern of existing and proposed land use.
e. Minor public ways shall be laid out to conform as much as possible
to the topography; to discourage use by through traffic; to permit
efficient drainage and utility systems; and to require the minimum
ways necessary to provide convenient and safe access to property.
f. The use of curvilinear streets, cul-de-sac, or "U"-shaped streets
shall be encouraged where such use will result in a more desirable
layout.
g. Proposed public ways shall be extended to the boundary lines of
the tract to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other
physical conditions or unless, in the opinion of the planning
commission, such extension is not necessary or desirable for the
coordination of the subdivision design with the existing layout or the
most advantageous future development of adjacent tracts.
h. In business and industrial developments, public ways and other
access routes shall be planned in connection with the grouping of
buildings, location of rail facilities, and the provision of alleys, truck
loading and maneuvering areas, and walks and parking areas, so
as to minimize conflict of movement between the various types of
traffic, including pedestrian traffic.
4-103.106 Blocks
a. Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two (2) tiers of lots
of appropriate depth. Exceptions to this prescribed block width may
be permitted in blocks adjacent to major public ways, railroads, or
waterways.
b. The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be determined with
due regard to:
 (i) provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special
needs of the type of use contemplated;
(ii) any zoning requirements as to lot sizes and dimensions;
 (iii) needs for convenient access, circulation, control, and safety
of vehicular and pedestrian traffic; and
ART. IV-11
(iv) limitations and opportunities of topography.
c. Block lengths in residential areas shall not exceed sixteen hundred
(1,600) feet nor be less than two hundred (200) feet, except as the
planning commission deems necessary to secure efficient use of
land or desired features of the public way pattern. Wherever
practicable, blocks along arterial or collector routes shall not be less
than one thousand (1,000) feet in length.
d Blocks designed for industrial or commercial uses shall be of such
length and width as may be deemed suitable by the planning
commission.
e. In any long block, the planning commission may require the
reservation of an easement through the block to accommodate
utilities, drainage, facilities, and/or pedestrian traffic.
 A pedestrian walkway, not less than ten (10) feet wide, may be
required by the planning commission through the approximate
center of any block more than eight hundred (800) feet long, where
deemed essential to provide circulation or access to a school,
playground, shopping center, transportation facility, or other
community facility.
4-103.107 Access to Arterials and Collectors
Where a subdivision borders on or contains an existing or proposed
arterial or collector route, the planning commission may require that
access to such public way be limited by:
a. the subdivision of lots so as to back on the arterial or collector route
and front on a parallel minor route;
b. a series of cul-de-sac, "U" shaped public ways, or short loops
entered from and designed generally at right angles to such a
parallel public way, with the rear lines of their terminal lots backing
onto the arterial or collector route; or
c. a marginal access or service public way, separated from the arterial
or collector route by a planting or grass strip and having access
thereto at suitable points.
The number of residential or local public ways entering on arterial or
collector routes shall be kept to a minimum.
4-103.108 Reserve Strips
The creation of reserve strips adjacent to a proposed public way in such a
manner as to deny access from adjacent property to such public way shall
generally not be permitted.
ART. IV-12
However, in extraordinary circumstances the planning commission may
allow creation of a reserve strip to enable a more appropriate pattern of
lots or public ways. Where such is created the planning commission must
agree to any and all future depositions of same. A notation to this effect
shall be entered on the final plat or approved as an auxiliary instrument
attached thereto.
4-103.109 Arrangement of Continuing and Dead-End Public Ways
a. Arrangement of Continuing Public Ways -- The arrangement of
public ways shall provide for the continuation of major public ways
between adjacent properties when such continuation is necessary
for convenient movement of traffic, effective fire protection, efficient
provision of utilities, and when such continuation is in accordance
with the major street or road plan. If the adjacent property is
undeveloped and the public way must be a dead-end public way
temporarily, the right-of-way shall be extended to the property line.
A temporary cul-de-sac, temporary T-, or L-shaped turnabout shall
be provided on all temporary dead-end public ways as required in
the following turnabout standards, with a notation on the
subdivision plat that land outside the normal public way right-of-way
shall revert to abutting property owners whenever the public way is
continued.
b. Dead-End Public Ways -- Where a public way does not extend
beyond the boundary of the subdivision and its continuation is not
required by the planning commission for access to adjoining
property, its terminus shall normally not be nearer to such boundary
than fifty (50) feet. However, the planning commission may require
the reservation of an appropriate easement to accommodate
drainage facilities, pedestrian traffic, or utilities. A cul-de-sac
turnabout shall be provided at the end of a dead-end public way in
accordance with the design standards of these regulations.
 For greater convenience to traffic and more effective police and fire
protection, permanent dead-end public ways shall, in general, be
limited in length in accordance with the design standards of these
regulations.
4-103.2 Design Standards
4-103.201 Purpose
In order to provide public ways of suitable location, width, and
improvement to accommodate prospective traffic and afford satisfactory
access to police, fire-fighting, sanitation, and road-maintenance
equipment, and to coordinate public ways so as to compose a convenient
and safe system and avoid undue hardships to adjoining properties, the
public way design standards set forth in this section are hereby required.
(Public way classification shall be as indicated on the land development
plan or major street or road plan; otherwise, the public way shall be
classified by the planning commission according to the definitions in Article
VI, of these regulations.)
ART. IV-13
4-103.202 General Design
The general design of all public ways shall conform to the standards in the
tables entitled "General Design Standards for Public Ways", which follow
hereafter.
4-103.203 Intersections
a. Public ways shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles. A proposed intersection of two (2) new public ways
at an angle of less than seventy-five (75) degrees shall not be
permitted. An oblique public way should be curved approaching an
intersection and should be approximately at right angles for at least
one hundred (100) feet therefrom. Not more than two (2) public
ways shall intersect at any one point unless specifically approved
by the planning commission.
 b. Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing public
way shall coincide, wherever practicable, with any existing
intersections on the opposite side of such public way. Jogs within
public ways having center line offsets of less than one hundred fifty
(150) feet shall not be permitted, except where the intersected
public ways have separated dual drives without median breaks at
either intersection. Where public ways intersect arterial or collector
routes, their alignment shall be continuous. Intersections of arterial
or collector public ways shall be at least eight hundred (800) feet
apart.
c. Minimum curb radius at the intersection of two (2) minor public
ways shall be twenty-five (25) feet, and minimum curb radius at an
intersection involving a collector public way shall be thirty (30) feet.
Alley intersections and abrupt changes in alignment within a block
shall have the corners cut off in accordance with standard
engineering practice to permit safe vehicular movement.
 d. Where a public way intersection will involve earth banks or existing
vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by
limiting visibility, the subdivider shall cut such ground or vegetation
(including trees) in connection with the grading of the public rightof-way to the extent necessary to provide adequate sight distance.
e. Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever practical.
In hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection, a leveling
area shall be provided having not greater than a two (2) percent
grade for a distance of sixty (60) feet, measured from the nearest
right-of-way line of the intersecting public way.
f. The cross-slope on all public ways, including intersections, shall be
three (3) percent or less.
ART. IV-14
4-103.204 Excess Right-of-Way
A slope easement in excess of the right-of-way designated in these
regulations may be required whenever, due to topography, additional
width is necessary to provide adequate earth slopes. Such slopes shall
not be less than three to one (3:1). Where solid rock is encountered
slopes shall be one-half to one (1/2:1).
4-103.205 Railroads and Limited Access Highways
Railroad right-of-way and limited access highways, where so located as to
affect the subdivision of adjoining lands, shall be treated as follows:
a. In residential areas, a buffer strip at least twenty-five (25) feet in
depth in addition to the normally required depth of the lot may be
required adjacent to the railroad right-of-way or limited access
highway. This strip shall be part of the platted lots and shall be
designated on the plat: "This strip is reserved for screening; the
placement of structures hereon is prohibited."
b. In commercial or industrial areas, the nearest public way extending
parallel or approximately parallel to the railroad shall, wherever
practicable, be at a sufficient distance therefrom to ensure suitable
depth for commercial or industrial usage.
c. Public ways parallel to a railroad, when intersecting a public way
which crosses the railroad at grade, shall to the extent practicable,
be at a distance of at least one hundred fifty (150) feet from the
railroad right-of-way. Such distance shall be determined with due
consideration of the minimum distance required for future
separation of grades by means of appropriate approach gradients.
4-103.206 Bridges
Bridges of primary benefit to the subdivider, as determined by the planning
commission, shall be constructed at the full expense of the subdivider
without reimbursement from the county government. The sharing of
expenses for the construction of bridges not of primary benefit to the
subdivider, as determined by the county government, shall be fixed by
special agreement between the county government and the subdivider.
The cost shall be charged to the subdivider pro rata as to the percentage
of his development so served.
ART. IV-15
GENERAL DESIGN STANDARDS FOR PUBLIC WAYS

NONRESIDENTIAL PUBLIC WAY
 RESIDENTIAL (INDUSTRIAL, COMMERCIAL:
IMPROVEMENT PUBLIC WAY OTHER)
Minimum Right-of-Way Width (in Feet)
5Minor 50 60
Collector 60 60 or (See *Below)
Arterial * *
Minimum Width of Roadway or Paved Area (in Feet) not Including Parking
Requirements
Ditch Section Curb & Gutter Ditch Section Curb & Gutter
Minor See Hickman County Road Specifications
Collector See Hickman County Road Specifications
Arterial See Hickman County Road Specifications
Maximum Percentage Grade
Minor See Hickman County Road Specifications
Collector See Hickman County Road Specifications
Arterial See Hickman County Road Specifications
Pavement Crown
The paved surface shall slope downward from the centerline of the street outward to the
edge of the paved surface on each side 2/5ths of an inch per foot.
Minimum Center Line Radius of Curve (in Feet)**
Minor 100 200
Collector 300 300
Arterial 500 500
___________________
* As determined by appropriate governmental representative.
** Applies where a deflection angle of 15 degrees or more in the alignment of
pavement occurs.
ART. IV-16
(Continued)
GENERAL DESIGN STANDARDS FOR PUBLIC WAYS

NONRESIDENTIAL PUBLIC WAY
 RESIDENTIAL (INDUSTRIAL, COMMERCIAL:
IMPROVEMENT PUBLIC WAY OTHER)
Minimum Length of Vertical Curves
Minor 100 feet, but not less than 20 feet for each algebraic difference in grade.
Collector 100 feet, but not less than 20 feet for each algebraic difference in grade.
Arterial 300 feet, but not less than 50 feet for each algebraic difference in grade.
Minimum Length of Tangents Between Reverse Curves (in Feet)
Minor 100 200
Collector 100 200
Arterial 300 400
Minimum Sight Distance (in Feet)*
Minor 200 250
Collector 240 250
Arterial 300 400
Intersection Across Corners 75 Feet Back Across Corners 75 Feet Back
Minimum Turnaround on Cul-de-sacs on Minor Public Ways (in Feet)
Right-of-way Diameter 100 See Hickman County Road Specifications
Pavement Diameter 80 See Hickman County Road Specifications
Length of Cul-de-sac
Permanent 1,000 Feet
Temporary 1,000 Feet
Minimum Radius (in Feet) of Return at Intersections
At Right-of-way 25 30
At Pavement 30 50
____________________
* The sight distance is measured from a point 4 1/2 feet above the center line of
the roadway surface to a point 4 inches above the center line of the roadway
surface.
ART. IV-17
4-103.3 Right-of-Way Width Dedication on Existing Public Ways
Where a subdivision adjoins an existing narrow public way or where the major
street or road plan or any zoning setback provisions indicate plans for
realignment or widening of a public way that would require use of some of the
land in the subdivision, the subdivider shall be required to dedicate, at his
expense, areas for widening or realigning such public way as set forth below:
1. the entire right-of-way shall be provided where any part of the subdivision
is on both sides of the existing public way; or
2. when the subdivision is located on only one side of an existing public way,
one-half (1/2) of the required right-of-way, measured from the center line
of the existing pavement, shall be provided.
4-103.4 Public Way Surfacing and Improvements
No public way shall be surfaced until preliminary approval of the subdivision plat
has been obtained. Surfacing shall be of such character as is suitable for the
expected traffic. Types and methods of paving shall be according to the
Hickman County Road Specifications. Adequate provisions shall be made for
culverts or other drains, and bridges, as required.
All public ways pavements, shoulders, drainage improvements and structures,
any curb turnabouts, and sidewalks shall conform to all construction standards
and specifications adopted by the Hickman County Commission and the Hickman
County Planning Commission and shall be incorporated into the construction
plans required to be submitted by the developer for plat approval.
4-104 Road Construction Specifications
The road construction specifications are the Hickman County Road Specifications.
These specifications shall be the minimum standards for any subdivision within the
jurisdictional area.
4-105 Drainage and Storm Sewers
4-105.1 General Requirements
The planning commission shall not approve any plat of a subdivision which does
not make adequate provisions for storm water or floodwater run-off channels or
basins. The storm water drainage system shall be separate and independent
from any sanitary sewer system.
4-105.2 Nature of Storm water Facilities
4-105.201 Location
The subdivider may be required by the planning commission to transport
by pipe or open ditch any spring or surface water that may exist prior to or
as a result of the subdivision. Such drainage facilities shall be located in
ART. IV-18
the public way right-of-way, where feasible, or in perpetual unobstructed
easements of appropriate width and shall be constructed in accordance
with the construction specifications contained in these regulations.
4-105.202 Accessibility to Public Storm Sewers
a. Where a public storm sewer is accessible, the developer shall
install storm sewer facilities, or if no outlets are within a reasonable
distance, adequate provision shall be made for the disposal of
storm waters, subject to the specifications of the appropriate
governmental representative; inspection of facilities shall be
conducted by the enforcing officer to assure compliance.
b. If a connection to a public storm sewer will be provided eventually,
as determined by the planning commission, the subdivider shall
make arrangements for future storm water disposal by a public
system at the time the plat receives final approval. Provisions for
such connection shall be incorporated by inclusion in the
performance bond required for the final subdivision plat.
4-105.203 Accommodation of Upstream Drainage Areas
A culvert or other drainage facility shall in each case be large enough to
accommodate potential runoff from its entire upstream drainage area,
whether inside or outside the subdivision. Necessary facilities shall be
sized based on the construction specifications and assuming conditions of
maximum potential watershed development permitted by any zoning
ordinance.
4-105.204 Effect on Downstream Drainage Areas
The planning commission also shall study the effect of each subdivision on
existing downstream drainage facilities outside the area of the subdivision. Where it is anticipated that the additional runoff incident to the
development of the subdivision will overload an existing downstream
drainage facility, the planning commission may withhold approval of the
subdivision until provision has been made for adequate improvement of
such drainage facilities in such sum as the planning commission shall
determine. No subdivision shall be approved unless adequate drainage
will be provided to an adequate drainage watercourse or facility.
4-105.205 Areas of Poor Drainage
Whenever a plat is submitted for an area which is subject to flooding, the
planning commission may approve such subdivision; provided, that the
applicant fills the affected floodway fringe area of said subdivision to
ART. IV-19
place public way elevations at no more than twelve (12) inches below the
regulatory flood elevation and first floor elevations (including basements)
at no less than one (1) foot above the regulatory flood elevation. The plat
of such subdivision shall provide for a floodway along the bank of any
stream or watercourse of width sufficient to contain or move the water of
the regulatory flood, and no fill shall be placed in the floodway; neither
shall any building nor flood-restrictive structure be erected or placed
therein. The boundaries of the floodway and floodway fringe area, and the
regulatory flood elevation, shall be determined by the planning
commission based upon the review specified in Subsection 2-103.2, of
these regulations and the submission of flood data in construction plans
as specified in Section 5-103, of these regulations.
4-105.206 Floodplain Areas
The planning commission may when it deems it necessary for the health,
safety, or welfare of the present and future population of the area or
necessary to the conservation of water, drainage, and sanitary facilities,
prohibit the subdivision of any portion of the property which lies within the
floodplain of any stream or drainage course. The regulatory floodway
shall be preserved from any and all destruction or damage resulting from
clearing, grading, or dumping of earth, waste material, or stumps. Any
subdivision which contains flood prone land shall be subject to the special
provisions set forth in Subsections 2-101.4; 4-101.4; Section 4-104; and
Subsection 4-105.2, of these regulations.
4-105.3 Dedication of Drainage Easements
4-105.301 General Requirements
Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway, channel,
or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially to the lines of such watercourse and
of such width and construction as will be adequate. Where open
drainageways are utilized they shall be designed for the twenty-five (25)
year frequency flood.
4-105.302 Drainage Easements
a. Where topography or other conditions are such as to make
impracticable the inclusion of drainage facilities within a public way
right-of-way, perpetual unobstructed easements at least ten (10)
feet in width for such facilities shall be provided across property
outside the public way lines and with satisfactory access to public
ways. Easements shall be indicated on the preliminary and final
plats. Drainage easements shall be carried from the public way to
a natural watercourse or to other drainage facilities.
b. When a new drainage system is to be constructed which will carry
water across private land outside the subdivision, appropriate
drainage rights must be secured and indicated on the plat.
ART. IV-20
c. The applicant shall dedicate, when required by the planning
commission, either in fee, or by drainage or conservation
easement, the land on both sides of an existing watercourse to a
distance to be determined by the planning commission.
 d. Along watercourses, low-lying lands within any floodway, as
determined by the planning commission pursuant to Section 2-103,
of these regulations, whether or not included in areas for
dedication, shall be preserved and retained in their natural state as
drainage ways.
4-105.303 Ditching, Concrete Ditch Paving, and Culverts and Storm
Drains
The design and construction details of drainage facilities shall be in
accordance with the provisions of these regulations. The design and
construction details of all such facilities shall be approved by the
appropriate governmental representative.
4-106 Water Facilities
4.106.1 General Requirements
1. Necessary action shall be taken by the developer to extend a water supply
system capable of providing domestic water use and fire protection.
2. Where a public water main is within reasonable access of the subdivision,
as determined by the planning commission, the subdivider shall install
adequate water facilities, including fire hydrants, subject to construction
and material specifications approval of the planning commission, the
Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation and these
regulations.
3. Where required for fire protection water mains shall not be less than six
(6) inches in diameter; where water mains are not to be utilized for fire
protection, the planning commission may approve smaller lines, as
necessary, to meet potable water demand.
4. All water systems, whether public or private, located in a flood prone area
shall be floodproofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation. All water
supply facilities located below the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be designed to prevent the infiltration of floodwaters into the water
supply system and discharges from the system into floodwaters.
4-106.2 Fire Hydrants
Fire hydrants shall be required in all subdivisions where public water is available;
they shall be located no more than one thousand (1,000) feet apart and be within
five hundred (500) feet of any residential, commercial, or industrial lot. However,
the planning commission may require closer spacing where physical conditions
or types of structures so warrant. To eliminate future public way cutting or
openings, all underground utilities for fire hydrants, together with the fire hydrants
themselves, and all other water supply improvements shall be installed before
any final paving of a public way shown on the subdivision plat, unless otherwise
ART. IV-21
approved by the planning commission. A dry hydrant system may be required
where public water is not available and where water pressure is not adequate for
fire hydrants.
4-107 Sewage Facilities
4-107.1 General Requirements
The applicant shall install sanitary sewer facilities in a manner prescribed by the
regulations of the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation and
by any other applicable standards and specifications. All plans shall be designed
and approved in accordance with the rules, regulations, specifications, and
standards, of any applicable governmental agency or appropriate unit thereof.
4-107.2 Mandatory Connection to Public Sewer System
1. When public sanitary sewers are within reasonable access of the
subdivision, as determined by the planning commission, the subdivider
shall provide sanitary sewer facilities to each lot therein and shall connect
the facilities to the public system. The subdivider shall provide sewers
which meet standards set forth in the regulations of the Tennessee
Department of Environment and Conservation.
2. All sanitary sewer facilities located in a flood hazard area shall be
floodproofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation. All sewer
facilities located below the regulatory flood protection elevation shall be
designed to prevent infiltration of floodwaters into the sewer system and
discharges from the system into floodwaters.
4-107.3 Individual Disposal System Requirements
If public sewer facilities are not available and individual disposal systems are
proposed, lot areas shall not be less than the minimums specified in these
regulations; all pertinent soil absorption tests shall be made as directed by the
county environmentalist and the results submitted to the county health
department for approval.
The individual disposal system, including the size of the septic tank and size of
the tile fields or other secondary treatment device, also shall be approved by the
county health department.
The planning commission may prohibit installation of sewage disposal facilities
requiring soil absorption systems where such systems will not function due to
high groundwater, flooding, or unsuitable soil characteristics. The planning
commission may require that the subdivider note on the face of the plat and any
deed of conveyance that soil absorption fields are prohibited in designated areas.
ART. IV-22
4-107.4 Design Criteria for Sanitary Sewers
Sanitary sewer systems shall be designed for the ultimate tributary population
based upon appropriate plans and zoning regulations.
The minimum size of a public sewer line shall be eight (8) inches in diameter with
individual lot service lines a minimum of four (4) inches.
Sanitary sewers shall be located within a public street right-of-way, unless
topography dictates otherwise. Public utility easements shall be provided across
private property for access to lines and manholes such easements to be of an
adequate width for service purposes, but in no case less than twenty (20) feet.
4-108 Pedestrian Ways
4-108.1 Sidewalks and Bicycle Paths
Sidewalks and bicycle paths, when included in the subdivision plat, shall adhere
to the minimum standards and shall be included within the dedicated
nonpavement right-of-way of all public ways as indicated in the following table
and shall be improved as required by Subsection 4-103.4, of these regulations.
Concrete curbs are required for all public ways where sidewalks are to be
constructed. A median strip of grassed or landscaped area at least two (2) feet
wide shall separate all sidewalks from adjacent curbs.

SIDEWALK DESIGN
Class of Street Sidewalk Width
Nonresidential Public Way
Residential Public Way (Industrial, Commercial; Other)
Minor Public Way 4 feet wide 6 feet wide
Collector Public Way 5 feet wide 6 feet wide
Arterial Public Way 5 feet wide 6 feet wide

4-108.2 Pedestrian Accesses
The planning commission may require, in order to facilitate pedestrian access
from the public way to schools, parks, playgrounds, or other nearby public ways,
perpetual unobstructed easements at least twenty (20) feet in width. Easements
shall be indicated on the plat.
ART. IV-23
4-109 Utility Easements
A. Easements down rear lot lines or additionally across lots, if deemed necessary
by the planning commission, shall be provided for utilities (private or public).
Such easements shall be at least twenty (20) feet wide. The subdivider shall
take such actions as are necessary to ensure the coordination and continuation
of utility easements established on adjacent properties with those proposed
within his development.
B. Where topographical or other conditions are such as to make impractical the
inclusion of utilities within rear lot lines, perpetual unobstructed easements at
least twenty (20) feet in width shall be provided along side lot lines with
satisfactory access to public ways or rear lot lines. Easements shall be indicated
on the plat.
C. Temporary construction easements exceeding the width of permanent
easements may be required as necessary until completion of any one project.
4-110 Public Uses
4-110.1 Plat to Provide for Public Uses
Whenever a tract to be subdivided includes a school, recreation use, a portion of
a major public way, or other public use, as indicated on the land development
plan and/or major street or road plan, or any portion thereof, such tract shall be
suitably incorporated by the developer into his plat when first presented for
review by the planning commission.
After proper determination of its necessity by the planning commission and the
appropriate governmental representative(s) involved in the acquisition and use of
such site, and after a determination has been made to acquire the site by the
public agency, the site shall be suitably incorporated by the developer into the
plat prior to final approval by the planning commission and recording of the plat.
4-110.2 Referral to the Governmental Agency Concerned
The planning commission shall refer any plat presented in accordance with
Subsection 4-110.1, to the governmental agency concerned with acquisition of
the land. The planning commission may propose alternate areas for such
acquisition and shall allow the appropriate governmental agency thirty (30) days
for reply.
Among the areas which the planning commission may propose for public
acquisition, when the commission deems it appropriate and consistent with the
policies and purposes set forth in these regulations, is any land within a floodway
or floodway fringe determined according to the procedure outlined herein.
The acquiring agency's recommendation, if affirmative, shall include a map
showing the boundaries and area of the parcel to be acquired and an estimate of
the time required to complete the acquisition.
ART. IV-24
4-110.3 Notice to Property Owner
Upon receipt of an affirmative report, the planning commission shall notify the
property owner and shall designate on all plats any areas proposed to be
acquired by any governmental agency. Upon such designation by the planning
commission, any reserved portion of any floodway or floodway fringe shall not be
altered from its natural state by the development in any manner whatsoever,
except upon written approval of the planning commission.
4-110.4 Duration of Land Reservation
The acquisition of land reserved by a governmental agency on the final plat shall
be initiated within twenty-four (24) months of notification, in writing, from the
owner that he intends to develop the land. Such letter of intent shall be
accompanied by a plat of a proposed development and a tentative schedule of
construction. Failure on the part of the governmental agency to initiate
acquisition within the prescribed twenty four (24) months shall result in the
removal of the "reserved" designation from the property involved and the freeing
of the property for development in accordance with these regulations.
4-111 Preservation of Natural Features and Amenities
Existing features which would add value to residential development or to the area as a
whole, such as trees, watercourses and falls, historic spots, and similar irreplaceable
assets, shall be preserved in the design of the subdivision, as required by the planning
commission. No change of grade of the land shall be affected nor shall any natural
features be removed or relocated until a preliminary subdivision plat has been approved
by the planning commission.
4-112 Nonresidential Subdivisions
4-112.1 General
If a proposed subdivision includes land which is zoned for a commercial or
industrial purpose, the layout of the subdivision with respect to such land shall
make such provisions as the planning commission may require. A nonresidential
subdivision also shall be subject to all the requirements of site plan approval set
forth in any zoning ordinance. Site plan approval may proceed simultaneously at
the discretion of the planning commission. A nonresidential subdivision shall be
subject to all the requirements of these regulations, as well as such additional
standards set forth by the planning commission, and shall conform to the
proposed land development plan, major street or road plan, and any zoning
ordinance.
4-112.2 Standards
In addition to the principles and standards in the regulations, which are
appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the subdivider shall demonstrate
to the satisfaction of the planning commission that the public way, parcel, and
block pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the uses anticipated and takes
into account other uses in the vicinity. The following principles and standards
shall be observed:
ART. IV-25
ART. IV-26
 1. proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in areas and dimensions to
the types of nonresidential development anticipated;
 2. public way rights-of-way and pavements shall be adequate to
accommodate the type and volume of traffic anticipated;
 3. special requirements may be imposed by the governing body with respect
to any public way, curb, gutter, and sidewalk design and construction
specifications;
 4. special requirements may be imposed by the governing body with respect
to the installation of public utilities, including water, sewer, and storm
water drainage;
 5. every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas from
potential nuisance from the proposed nonresidential subdivision, including
the provision of extra depth in parcels backing on existing or potential
residential development and provisions for permanently landscaped buffer
strips, when necessary; and
 6. public ways carrying nonresidential traffic, especially trucks, normally shall
not be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or potential
residential areas.
 

 ARTICLE V
SPECIFICATIONS FOR DOCUMENTS TO BE SUBMITTED
5-101 Sketch Plat
5-101.1 General
Sketch plats submitted to the planning commission, prepared in pen or pencil,
shall be drawn to a convenient scale no smaller than two hundred (200) feet to
an inch.
5-101.2 Features
The sketch plat shall show:
1. a scale drawing of the property and the names of the owners of adjoining
property;
2. size of the original tract(s) being subdivided;
3. notation of any existing legal rights-of-way or easements, or other
encumbrances affecting the property;
4. approximate topography of the site, at no more than five (5) foot intervals,
extended into adjacent properties;
5. any areas which may be affected by flooding;
6. general public way and lot patterns;
7. proposed phasing, if any;
8. vicinity map of property;
9. date and approximate north point;
10. name of owner;
11. name of licensed surveyor; and
 12. zoning classification.
ART. V-1
5-102 Preliminary Plat
5-102.1 General
The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a licensed surveyor, at a convenient
scale no smaller than two hundred feet to an inch (200’ – 1”). The plat may be
prepared in pen or pencil, and the sheets shall be numbered in sequence if more
than one sheet is used. The map prepared for the preliminary plat may be used
for the final subdivision plat and should be permanently reproducible.
5-102.2 Features
The preliminary plat shall include:
1. the location of the property to be subdivided with respect to surrounding
property(s) and public way(s);
2. the names of all adjoining property owners of record, or the names of
adjoining developments;
3. the names of adjoining public ways;
4. the location and dimensions of all boundary lines of the property, figured
to the nearest hundredth (100th) of a foot;
5. the location of existing public ways, easements, water bodies, streams,
and other pertinent features, such as swamps, railroads, buildings, parks,
cemeteries, drainage ditches, and bridges, as determined by the planning
commission;
6. the location and width of all existing and proposed easements, alleys, and
other public ways, and building setback lines;
7. the location, dimension, and area of all proposed or existing lots;
8. culverts, driveway tiles, associated drainage structures sized along with
necessary easements; electrical and telephone easements;
9. the position of all existing or proposed buildings within proposed
condominium developments;
10. the location and dimension of all property proposed to be set aside for
park or playground use or other public or private reservation, with
designation of the purpose thereof, and conditions, if any, of the
dedication or reservation;
11. the limits of floodway and floodway fringe areas and the associated
regulatory flood elevation and regulatory flood protection elevation, as
determined according to flood maps or flood studies as required;
12. the name and address of the owner(s) of land to be subdivided, the
subdivider if other than the owner, and the licensed surveyor preparing the
plat;
ART. V-2
13. the date of the plat, approximate true north point, scale, and title of the
subdivision;
14. sufficient data to determine readily the general location, bearing, and
length of all lines necessary to reproduce such lines upon the ground;
15. name of the subdivision and all new public ways, as approved by the
planning commission;
16. the zoning classification of all zoned lots, as well as an indication of all
uses other than residential proposed by the subdivider;
17. the distance and bearing of one of the corners of the boundary of the
subdivision to the nearest intersection of existing public ways and to the
original corner of the original survey of which it is a part;
18. key map showing relation of the subdivision to all public ways, railroads,
and watercourses in all directions to a distance of at least one-half (1/2)
mile. (Suggested scale: one inch to one thousand feet (1” – 1,000’);
19. contours at vertical intervals of not more than two (2) feet where the
proposed subdivision has an average slope of five (5) percent or less, or
at vertical intervals of not more than five (5) feet where the average slope
exceeds five (5) percent (contours to be field surveyed or taken from aerial
photographs acceptable to the planning commission);
20. map parcel numbers as recorded on the land tax maps of the county;
21. The following notations:
(a) explanation of drainage easements;
(b) explanation of site easements;
(c) explanation of reservations; and
(d) for any lot where public sewer or water systems are not available,
the following:
(i) areas to be used for sewage disposal and their percolation
results, or if the planning commission desires, any other
acceptable data to show that the site can be served
effectively by septic tanks;
(ii) water wells (existing and proposed); and
(iii) rock outcroppings, marshes, springs, sinkholes, natural
storm drains, and other outstanding topographical features;
22. draft of proposed restrictive covenants, if any, to be imposed and
designation of areas subject to special restrictions; and
ART. V-3
23. a form for endorsement of planning commission approval of the
preliminary plat which shall read as follows:
 Approved by the Planning Commission,
with such exceptions or conditions as are indicated in the minutes of the
Commission on . date
Preliminary plat approval shall not constitute final approval for recording
purposes.
5-103 Construction Plans
5-103.1 General
Construction plans shall be prepared for all improvements required by these
regulations. Plans shall be drawn at a scale of no more than fifty (50) feet to an
inch. Plans shall be in compliance with the specifications in Article IV, of these
regulations. Approval of plans must precede actual construction, and no final
plat shall be considered by the planning commission until the required plans have
been approved. The construction plans shall be prepared and stamped by a
licensed engineer engaged in the practice of civil engineering.
5-103.2 Features
The following shall be shown on the construction plans.
1. Profiles showing existing and proposed elevations along center lines of all
public ways.
2. Where a proposed road intersects an existing public way or ways, the
elevation along the center line of the existing public way within one
hundred (100) feet of the intersection.
3. Approximate radii of all curves, lengths of tangents, and central angles on
all public ways.
4. Proposed public ways, as required by the planning commission; where
such are required, horizontal stationing shall be at fifty (50) foot intervals
and cross-sectional elevations shall be to an accuracy of one tenth (1/10)
foot vertical on a line at right angles to the center line of the public way at
the following points: the center line of the public way, each property line,
and points twenty-five (25) feet inside each property line.
5. Plans and profiles indicating the locations and typical cross-section of
public way pavements, including curbs and gutters, sidewalks, drainage
easements, rights-of-way, manholes, and catch basins.
6. The location of public way signs.
ART. V-4
7. The location, size, and invert elevations of existing and proposed sanitary
sewers, storm water drains, and fire hydrants, showing connection to any
existing or proposed utility system.
8. Exact location and size of all water, gas, or other underground utilities or
structures.
9. Location, size, elevation, and other appropriate description of any existing
facilities or utilities, including but not limited to, existing public ways,
sewers, drains, water mains, easements, water bodies, streams, and other
pertinent features, such as swamps, railroads, buildings, and features
noted on the land development plan or major street or road plan.
10. The water elevations of adjoining lakes or streams and the approximate
high- and low-water elevations of such lakes or streams shall be shown.
All elevations shall be referred to the U.S.G.S. datum plane.
11. If the subdivision borders a lake, river, or stream, the distance and
bearings of a meander line established not less than twenty (20) feet back
form the ordinary high-water mark of such waterways.
12. The developer shall prepare for any portion of a subdivision containing a
flood prone area, or an area known to be subject to flooding, information
necessary for the planning commission to determine the suitability of the
particular site for the proposed development, as follows:
(a) plans in triplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevation of any part of the subdivision within a
flood prone area; existing or proposed structures or building sites,
fill, storage of materials and floodproofing measures, as specified in
these regulations; and the relationship of the above to the location
of the stream channel, floodway, floodway fringe, the regulatory
flood elevation, and the regulatory flood protection elevation;
(b) a typical valley cross-section showing the channel of the stream,
elevation of land areas adjoining each side of the channel, crosssectional areas to be occupied by the proposed development, and
high-water information, if required by the planning commission;
(c) surface-view plans showing elevations and contours of the ground;
 (d) pertinent structures, fill, or elevations of public ways;
(e) water supply, sanitary facilities, soil types, and other pertinent
information, as required by the planning commission; and
(f) specifications for building construction and materials, flood
proofing, filling, dredging, grading, storage of materials, water
supply, and sanitary facilities.
ART. V-5
13. Contours at the same vertical interval as on the preliminary plat.
14. In addition to the other requirements of this section, construction plans for
condominium subdivisions shall contain "as built" drawings of all
underground utilities, regardless of proposed ownership, and the
construction design of all public facilities which are proposed for dedication
to the governing body.
15. A notation of construction plans approval by appropriate persons or
governmental representatives.
16. Title, name, address, stamp and signature of engineer who prepared the
plans.
17. Date of plans, including any revision dates.
18. An erosion and sediment control plan shall be prepared for each
development required to submit construction plans. Such plan shall
demonstrate the manner in which the general principals for erosion and
sediment control set out in Subsection 4-102.503 are to be implemented
on the site covered by the construction plans.
5-104 Final Subdivision Plat
5-104.1 General
The final subdivision plat shall be prepared on transparent drafting material at a
scale no smaller than two hundred feet to the inch (200’ – 1”) on sheets of county
register plat book size. The use of an appropriate smaller scale may be
permitted for lots larger than two (2) acres. When more than one (1) sheet is
required, an index sheet of the same size shall be filed showing the entire
subdivision with the sheets numbered in sequence.
Construction plans, if required as described in Section 5-103, of these
regulations, shall have been approved prior to planning commission approval of
the final subdivision plat.
5-104.2 Features
The final plat shall include:
1. The location of the property to be subdivided with respect to surrounding
property(s) and public ways.
2. The names of all adjoining property owners of record or the names of
adjoining developments.
3. The names of adjoining public ways.
ART. V-6
4. The exact boundary lines of the tract, determined by a field survey,
showing angles to the nearest minute and distance to the nearest one
hundredth (1/100) of a foot. The adjusted accuracy of the survey shall
meet or exceed the standards set forth in Title 62, Chapter 18, of the
Tennessee Code, for the category of survey required by these regulations.
The category of survey shall be determined according to the average size
of lots (see Table below) within the proposed subdivision.

ACCURACY OF SURVEYS*
 Category I Urban and Subdivision
 Category II Suburban and Subdivision
 Category III All Other Surveys
______
NOTE: Surveys must meet the minimum accuracy requirements provided
above for the category where the survey is located. The category (I,
II, or III, as defined above) must be determined by the surveyor to the
best of his knowledge and belief at the time of the survey. Nothing in
this rule shall preclude a surveyor from using a greater degree of
accuracy than that required as a minimum for any category provided
above.
A distance and bearing shall be provided which will link a point on the
boundary of the subdivision to a monument in the right-of-way of the
nearest prominent public way intersection.
5. The location of all public ways, easements, water bodies, large streams or
rivers, railroads, parks, and cemeteries.
6. The limits of floodway and floodway fringe areas and the regulatory flood
elevation and regulatory flood protection elevation; as determined by the
planning commission.
7. The location and width of all easements and rights-of-way for public ways,
as well as the building setback lines on all lots.
8. The location, dimensions, and area of all lots. All dimensions shall be field
run to the nearest one hundredth of a foot and angles to the nearest
minute. Lot areas shall be shown to the nearest tenth of a square foot.
9. The location, area, and dimensions, to the accuracy set forth in Item 8
above, of all property to be set aside for park or playground use or other
public or private reservation, with a designation of the purpose thereof,
and conditions, if any, of the dedication or reservation.
ART. V-7
10. The final plat of a condominium subdivision shall contain, in addition to the
other information required by this section:
(a) an "as-built" building location and boundary survey, to "American
Land Title Association" or other similar standards, showing
complete and accurate dimensions and angles of the boundary of
the parcel(s) on which the condominium is located, together with
exterior dimensions and locations relative to those boundaries of
the building(s) which constitute the condominium subdivision;
(b) some sort of datum plane or other suitable vertical location
reference. In meeting these requirements, it is only necessary that
the upper and lower limits of each level of each condominium unit
be identified specifically in relation to the vertical reference, (e.g.,
an appropriate permanent monument or other acceptable reference
datum or fixed known point). Elaborate exterior elevations and
architectural detail are not necessary to satisfy this requirement;
and
(c) copies of deed covenants, the charter and by-laws of any
homeowners' association established; and special information
which the planning commission may require to protect the rights of
future owners of the condominium or the public in general.
11. The name and address of the owner(s) of the land being subdivided.
12. The name and address of the subdivider if other than the owner.
13. The name and stamp of the licensed surveyor preparing the plat.
14. The date of the plat, approximate true north point, scale, and title of the
subdivision.
15. Sufficient data to determine readily the location, bearing, and length of all
lines necessary to reproduce such lines upon the ground. This shall
include the radius, central angle, and tangent distance for the center line
of the curved public ways and curved property lines that are not the
boundary of curved public ways. The location of all monuments and pins
shall be indicated on the plat.
16. The name of all public ways.
17. The zoning classification of all lots, as well as an indication of uses other
than residential proposed by the subdivider.
18. The total acreage within the subdivision.
19. Lot numbers, where required.
20. The line size and location of water and sewer facilities.
ART. V-8
21. The location of all fire hydrants.
22. The diameter and width of all driveway culverts.
23. For any lot where public sewer or water system is not available, the
following shall be shown:
(a) areas to be used for sewage disposal; and
(b) water wells (existing and proposed).
24. Applicable certifications in the form reproduced in this section shall appear
upon the final plat. All required certificates shall bear the signature of the
approving or authorizing agent at the time of application for final plat
approval, except that the form for endorsement of the planning
commission's approval for recording shall appear unsigned at the time of
application for approval.
25. State Department of Environment and Conservation, public water and
sewer design layout and approval stamps, if applicable; also, actual
design plans for filing in appropriate governmental representative's office.
26. Commitment notes may be printed or stamped on the final plat reflecting
location and dimension of easements, or extent of other agreements or
factual data, in lieu of drafted illustration, when applicable, and as
approved by the planning commission.
5-104.3 Plat Certificates
 1. Certification showing that the applicant is the landowner; that he offers for
dedication public ways, rights-of-way, and any site for public use; and that
he consents to the subdivision plan.
 CERTIFICATE OF OWNERSHIP AND DEDICATION
I (we) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property shown
and described hereon as evidenced in Book Number ____, page ____,
County Registers Office, and that I (we) hereby adopt this plan of
subdivision with my (our) free consent, establish the minimum building
restriction lines, and that offers of irrevocable dedication for all public
ways, utilities, and other facilities have been filed.
 ____________________, 20 __ __________________________
 Date Owner
 __________________________________________________________
Title (if acting for partnership or corporation)
ART. V-9
2. Certification by a registered land surveyor as to the accuracy of the land
survey.
CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY ACCURACY
I (we) hereby certify that to the best of my (our) knowledge and belief this
is a true and accurate survey of the property shown hereon; that this is a
Class "_____" Land Survey as defined in Title 62, Chapter 18, Tennessee
Code, and that the ratio of precision is greater than or equal to 1: ______.
 _______________, 20__ _____________________________________ Date Registered Land Surveyor - Number .
 3. Certification by appropriate governmental or quasi-governmental official(s)
that sewage disposal and/or water system(s) has/have been installed.
CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL OF WATER SYSTEM
I hereby certify that the water system(s) outlined or indicated on the final
subdivision plat entitled _______________________________ has/have
been installed in accordance with current local and state government
requirements, or a sufficient bond or other surety has been filed to
guarantee said installation.
 _______________, 20__ ________________________________ Date Name, Title and Agency or Authorized
 Approving Agent
CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL OF SEWER SYSTEMS
I hereby certify that the sewer systems outlined or indicated on the final
subdivision plat entitled ________________________________ have
been installed in accordance with current local and state government
requirements or a sufficient bond or cash has been filed which will
guarantee said installation.
Sewer System ____________, 20__ __________________________ Date Name, Title, and Agency of
 Authorized Approving Agent
ART. V-10
 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL
 PRIVATE SUBSURFACE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
 General approval is hereby granted for lots proposed hereon as being
suitable for subsurface sewage disposal with the listed and/or attached
restrictions.
Before the initiation of construction, the location of the house or other
structures and plans for the subsurface sewage disposal system shall be
approved by the local health authority.
 _________________, 20__ ________________________________ Date Local Health Authority
 4. Certification on the final plat by appropriate governmental representative
that the subdivider has complied with one of the following:
(a) installation of all public way improvements in accordance with the
requirements of these regulations; or
(b) in lieu of compliance with subdivision improvement requirements,
certification that surety has been posted by the subdivider in an
amount approved by appropriate governmental representative to
guarantee completion of all improvements.
 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL
OF PUBLIC WAYS FOR BOND POSTING
I hereby certify: (1) that all designated public ways on this final
subdivision plat have been installed in an acceptable manner and
according to the specifications of the _____________________________
Subdivision Regulations, or (2) that a performance bond or other surety
has been posted with the planning commission to guarantee completion of
all required improvements in case of default.
 _______________, 20__ _____________________________________ Date Appropriate Governmental Representative
5. For a subdivision containing common open space or facilities, certification
on the final plat of dedication of common areas in accordance with
procedures established in these regulations.
ART. V-11
 CERTIFICATION OF COMMON AREAS DEDICATION
_______________________ in recording this plat has designated certain
areas of land shown hereon as common areas intended for use by the
homeowners within ________________________________ for recreation
 (Name of Subdivision)
and related activities. The above described areas are not dedicated for
use by the general public, but are dedicated to the common use of the
homeowners within the named subdivision.
"Declaration of Covenants and Restrictions," applicable to the above
named subdivision, is hereby incorporated and made a part of this plat.
 _________________, 20__ ________________________________ Date Owner
6. Certification on the final plat of planning commission approval for
recording of the plat.
 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL FOR RECORDING
I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to
comply with the ______________________ Subdivision Regulations, with
the exception of such variances, if any, as are noted in the minutes of the
planning commission, and that it has been approved for recording in the
Office of the County Register.
 ____________, 20__ ________________________________ Date Secretary, Planning Commission
7. Notation of Possible Flooding -- If any portion of the land being subdivided
is subject to flooding as defined in these regulations, a notation shall be
made on the plat that development or modification of the land within any
floodway delineated within plat is prohibited and that development within
floodway fringes delineated on the plat shall be done in such a manner
that any structure shall be protected against flood damage to at least the
regulatory flood protection elevation, which elevation shall be stated in the
notation. Any additional restrictions imposed by the planning commission
upon development within flood prone areas also shall be indicated on the
plat.
8. Notation of Health Restrictions -- Any modifications or limitations which
may be imposed by the state or county health department shall be clearly
indicated on the plat.
9. Notation of Private Restrictions -- Private restrictions and trusteeships and
their periods of existence shall be indicated on the plat. Should these
restrictions or trusteeships be of such length as to make their lettering
impracticable and thus necessitate the preparation of a separate
instrument, reference to such instrument shall be made on the plat or, if
the restrictions and trusteeships are of record, the plat shall note where
they are recorded.
ART. V-12
10. Private Driveway Certification – This drive is to be built and maintained
jointly by all owners taking access from this private driveway, and is not
intended to become a public road. The Hickman County Highway
Commission may, at their discretion, agree to accept this road into the
County Highway System if all property owners agree to (1) petition the
Highway Commission for a public road and (2) build or pay for upgrading
to County specifications in effect at the time of the request. Signature and
Date of County Road Supervisor required. Any owner(s) of lots currently
taking access from this private driveway must sign, thereby
acknowledging awareness of the above maintenance statement and
awareness that access via this private driveway is limited to five (5) lots
with a minimum of five (5) acres each.
Owner Signature Map Parcel Back Page Number Date
5-105 Form of Dedication Offer
The form of the offer of irrevocable dedication, required by Subsection 2-104.1, Item 5,
of these regulations, shall be as reproduced in this section and approved by the city
attorney. The form may be modified as required by the city attorney.
Copies of this form may be obtained at the office of the enforcing officer.
FORM FOR OFFER OF
IRREVOCABLE DEDICATION
AGREEMENT made this ________ day of ________________, 20__, by and between
________________________, a ____________________, having its office and place of
business at _______________________, Tennessee, hereinafter designated as the
"local government".
WHEREAS, the _______________ _______________ Planning Commission is in the
process of approving a subdivision plat entitled __________________________, dated
______________________, and made by ______________________; and
WHEREAS, said map designates certain public improvements consisting of
______________________________________________ to be dedicated to the City of
______________________, free and clear of all encumbrances and liens, pursuant to
the requirements of the planning commission and the local government; and
WHEREAS, the developer, simultaneously herewith, shall post a performance bond with
the city for the construction, maintenance, and dedication of said improvements, if
required;
WHEREAS, the developer is desirous of offering for dedication the said improvements
and land to the city more particularly described in Schedule _____________________
attached hereto;
WHEREAS, the developer has delivered deeds of conveyance to the city for the said
land and improvements as described herein;
ART. V-13
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the sum of one dollar ($1.00) lawful money of
the United States paid by the city to the developer and other good and valuable
consideration, it is mutually AGREED as follows:
A. The developer herewith delivers to the city deeds of conveyance for the
premises described in Schedule _________________________ attached
hereto, said delivery being a formal offer of dedication to the city until the
acceptance or rejection of such offer of dedication by the city.
B. The developer agrees that said formal offer of dedication is irrevocable
and can be accepted by the city at the time.
C. The developer agrees to complete the construction and maintenance of
the land and improvements pursuant to the performance bond and the
requirements of the ________________ _________________ Planning
Commission and any ordinances, regulations, requirements, covenants,
and agreements that may be imposed by the city with respect thereto and,
upon acceptance by the city of the offer of dedication, furnish to the city a
sworn statement certifying that the premises are free and clear of all liens
and encumbrances and shall furnish to the city a check for all necessary
fees and taxes to record the deeds heretofore delivered.
D. That this irrevocable offer of dedication shall run with land and shall be
binding on all assigns, guarantees, successors, or heirs of the developer.
 ______________, 20____ ________________________________ Date Developer
 (CORPORATE SEAL)
 ATTEST: FOR THE COUNTY OF: _____________________
 BY: __________________________
 ________________, 20__ __________________________
ART. V-14
ART. V-15
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT:
COPARTNERSHIP
 STATE OF TENNESSEE
 (COUNTY OF __________________) SS: _________________
 On this ____ day of _______________, 20__, before me personally
appeared ______________________________, to me known and known
to me to be one of the firm _________________________________,
described in and who executed the foregoing instrument, and he
thereupon acknowledged to me that he executed such instrument as and
for the act and deed of said firm.
 ______________________________
 CORPORATE
 STATE OF TENNESSEE
 (COUNTY OF __________________) SS: _________________
 On this ____ day of _________, 20__, before me personally appeared
_____________________, to me known, who, being by me first duly
sworn, did depose and said that he resides in ____________________;
that he is the ____________________ of ________________, the
corporate seal affixed to said instrument is such corporate seal; that it was
so affixed by order and authority of the Board of Directors of said
corporation, and that he signed his name thereto by like order and
authority.
 __________________________
 INDIVIDUAL 

 ARTICLE VI
DEFINITIONS
6-101 Usage
A. For the purpose of these regulations certain numbers, abbreviations, terms, and
words used herein shall be used, interpreted, and defined as set forth in this
article.
B. Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words used in the present
tense include the future tense and words used in the plural include the singular;
the word "herein" means "in these regulations"; and the word "regulations"
means "these regulations".
C. A "person" includes a corporation, a partnership, and an unincorporated
association of persons, such as a club; "shall" is always mandatory; a "building"
or "structure" includes any part thereof; "used" or "occupied", as applies to any
land or building, shall be construed to include "intended, arranged, or designed to
be used or occupied".
6-102 Words and Terms Defined
Alley -- A public or private right-of-way primarily designed to serve as secondary access
to the side or rear of those properties whose principal frontage is on some other street.
Applicant -- The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his authorized
representative. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premise(s).
Architect -- An architect or landscape architect certified and registered by the State
Board of Architectural and Engineer Examiners pursuant to Title 62, Chapter 2,
Tennessee Code, to practice in Tennessee.
Arterial Street or Road -- A major public way intended to move traffic to and from major
industrial areas or a route for traffic between communities or large areas and which has
an average daily traffic count in excess of three thousand (3,000).
Block -- A tract of land bounded by public ways or by a public parks, cemeteries,
railroad rights-of-way, or shorelines or waterways or a combination of such.
Bond -- An instrument with a clause, with a sum of money fixed as a penalty, binding
the parties to pay the same: conditioned, however, that the payment of the penalty may
be avoided by the performance by some one or more of the parties of certain acts.
Building -- Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of persons, animals,
chattels, or movable property of any kind; the term includes a mobile home.
ART. VI-1
Capital Improvements Program -- A proposed schedule of future projects, listed in order
of construction priority, together with cost estimates and the anticipated means of
financing each project. All major projects requiring the expenditure of public funds, over
and above the annual local government operating expenses, for the purchase,
construction, or replacement of the physical assets of the community are included.
Collector Street or Road -- A major public way intended to move traffic from local ways
to arterial routes. Collector routes serve a neighborhood or large subdivision(s), and
normally have an average daily traffic count ranging from one thousand and one (1,001)
to three thousand (3,000).
Common Elements -- Any portion of a condominium which is held in common by owners
of condominium units. These elements may be either general common elements or
limited common elements, as defined below.
General Common Elements -- Any of the common elements of a condominium
which are held in joint ownership by all owners of the condominium.
Limited Common Elements -- Any of the common elements of a condominium
which are reserved for use by the owner of a particular condominium unit or
group of units.
Condominium -- A form of ownership of less than the whole of a building or system of
buildings under the provisions of Title 66, Chapter 27, Tennessee Code, which provides
the mechanics and facilities for formal filing and recordation of divided interests in real
property, whether the division is vertical or horizontal.
Condominium Subdivision -- The subdivision of property through the establishment of a
condominium or horizontal property regime.
Horizontal Condominium Subdivision -- A subdivision where each unit occupies
some ground space.
Vertical Condominium Subdivision -- A subdivision of a multi-story building in
which one (1) or more units do not occupy ground space.
Condominium Unit -- A space conveyed by separate title and located within a
condominium structure.
Construction Plan -- The maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision plat and
showing the specific location and design of improvements to be installed in the
subdivision in accordance with the requirements of the planning commission.
Contractor -- An individual, firm, or corporation with whom an owner or authorized agent
has executed a work agreement.
County Environmentalist -- An agent designated to administer local and/or state health
regulations.
Cul-de-sac -- A minor street having only one outlet and having an appropriate terminal
for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement; definition includes: dead end,
turn-around, or turn-about.
ART. VI-2
Design Specifications -- Written descriptions of a technical nature of materials,
equipment, construction systems, standards, and workmanship required for a project
intended for local government ownership or maintenance.
Developer -- The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his authorized
representative.
Dwelling Unit -- A room, or rooms connected together constituting a separate,
independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy, rental or lease on a
daily, weekly, monthly, or longer basis; physically separated from any other room(s) or
dwelling units which may be in the same structure; and containing independent cooking
and sleeping facilities.
Easement -- Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, for a specified
purpose, of any designated part of his property.
Enforcing Officer -- The building inspector or such person designated by the chief
executive officer to be responsible for enforcing the provisions of these regulations.
Engineer -- An engineer certified and registered by the State Board of Architectural and
Engineer Examiners pursuant to Title 62, Chapter 2, Tennessee Code, to practice in
Tennessee.
Equal Degree of Encroachment -- The delineation of floodway limits so that floodplain
lands on both sides of a stream are capable to conveying a proportionate share of flood
flows. This is determined by considering the hydraulic conveyance of the floodplain
along both sides of a stream for a significant reach.
Escrow -- A fiduciary agreement with the local government in lieu of actual performance
and intended to assure performance. An escrow account may be provided as a bond
subject to agreement of the planning commission.
External Subdivision Boundary -- All points along the periphery of a subdivision.
Final Subdivision Plat -- The final map or drawing and accompanying materials,
described in these regulations, on which the subdivider's plan of the subdivision is
presented to the planning commission for approval and which, if approved by the
commission, is recorded with the county register of deeds.
Flood -- A temporary rise in stream level that results in inundation of areas not ordinarily
covered by water.
Flood Frequency -- The statistically determined average for how often a specific flood
level or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
Flood Hazard Boundary Map -- An official map on which the boundaries of the
floodplain areas having special flood hazards have been delineated.
Flood Hazard or Flood Prone Area -- The maximum area of the floodplain that, on the
average, is likely to be flooded once every one hundred years (i.e., that has a one (1)
percent chance of being flooded in any year).
ART. VI-3
Floodplain -- A land area adjoining a river, stream watercourse, bay, or lake which is
likely to be flooded. It is composed of a floodway and floodway fringe.
Floodplain Management Program -- The overall program of corrective and preventive
measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, building code regulations, health regulations,
zoning ordinance regulations, and these subdivision regulations.
Flood Profile -- A graph showing the water surface elevation or height or a particular
flood event for any point along the longitudinal course of a stream. The flood profile is
determined through the use of standard open-channel hydraulic calculations.
Floodproofing -- Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions, changes, or
adjustments to properties and structures which reduce or eliminate potential flood
damage to lands; water facilities, sanitary facilities, and other utilities; structures; and
contents of buildings; and which prevent pollution of floodwaters from such natural or
man-made sources.
Floodway -- The stream channel and adjacent overbank areas required to carry and
safely discharge the 100-year flood without increasing flood levels more than one foot
above natural flood levels.
Floodway Encroachment Limits -- The lines marking the limits of floodways on official
federal, state, and local floodplain maps.
Floodway Fringe -- The area adjoining a watercourse which, although not lying within a
floodway, has been or may hereafter be covered by a 100-year flood.
Frontage -- That side of a lot abutting a public way ordinarily regarded as the front of the
lot. It shall not be considered as the ordinary side of a corner lot.
General Plan -- The official statement of the planning commission which sets forth major
policies concerning future development of the jurisdictional area and meeting the
provisions set forth in Sections 13-3-301 thru 13-3-304, Tennessee Code.
Governmental Agency -- Any public body other than the governing body.
Governing Body -- The chief legislative body of any government.
Governmental Representative -- An outside person or designated local official or
employee authorized to act on behalf of the governing body in making determinations
regarding legal, public works, planning, community development, or other public
business.
Grade -- The slope of a public way specified in percentage terms.
Highway, Limited Access -- A freeway or expressway providing a trafficway for through
traffic, in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting property(s) or lands and
other persons have no legal right of access to or from the trafficway, except at such
points and in such manner as may be determined by the public authority having
jurisdiction over such trafficway.
ART. VI-4
Horizontal Property Act -- "The Tennessee Horizontal Property Act" as codified in Title
66, Chapter 2, Tennessee Code.
Individual Sewage Disposal System -- A septic tank, seepage tile sewage disposal
system, or any other sewage treatment device other than a public treatment system
approved by the appropriate governmental representative.
Internal Subdivision Boundary -- All points within a subdivision which do not constitute
external boundaries.
Joint Ownership -- Joint ownership among persons shall be construed as the same
owner for the purpose of imposing subdivision regulations.
Jurisdictional Area -- Planning boundary(s) established in keeping with Sections 13-3-
102, 13-3-201, and 13-3-301, Tennessee Code.
Land Development Plan -- An element of the general plan which sets out a plan or
scheme of future land usage.
Land Surveyor -- A land surveyor certified and registered by the State Board of Land
Survey Examiners pursuant to Title 62, Chapter 18, Tennessee Code, to practice in
Tennessee.
Legal Counsel -- The person designated by the governing body to provide legal
assistance for the administration of these and other regulations.
Lot - A tract, plot, or portion of a subdivision or parcel of land intended as a unit for the
purpose, whether immediate or future, or transfer of ownership, or for building
development.
Lot, Corner -- A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) public ways.
Lot Improvement -- Any building, structure, place, work of art, or other object or
improvement of the land on which they are situated constituting a physical betterment of
real property, or any part of such betterment.
Major Street or Road -- A public way which is classified as a collector or arterial public
way according to these regulations or by the major street or road plan for the
jurisdictional area.
Major Street or Road Plan -- The plan adopted by the planning commission, pursuant to
Section 13-3-402, Tennessee Code, showing, among other things, "the general
location, character, and extent of public ways... (and) the removal, relocation,
extension, widening, narrowing, vacating, abandonment or change of use of existing
public ways..."
Major Subdivision -- All subdivisions not classified as minor subdivisions including but
not limited to subdivisions of five (5) or more lots or subdivisions of any size requiring
any new or improved road, the extension of government facilities, or the creation of any
public improvements, or containing any flood prone area.
ART. VI-5
Minor Street or Road -- A public way which is not classified as an arterial or collector.
Minor Subdivision -- Any subdivision containing less than five (5) lots fronting on an
existing public way; not involving any new or improved public way, the extension of
public facilities, or the creation of any public improvements, and not in conflict with any
provision of the adopted general plan, major street or road plan, zoning ordinance, or
these regulations.
National Flood Insurance Program -- A program established by the U.S. Government in
the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, and expanded in the Flood Disaster
Protection Act of 1973, in order to provide a flood insurance at rates made affordable
through a federal subsidy in local political jurisdictions which adopt and enforce
floodplain management programs meeting the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations. The program regulations are found at 24 Code of
Federal Regulations, Chapter X, Subchapter B.
Offsite -- Any premise not located within the area of the property to be subdivided,
whether or not in the same ownership of the applicant for subdivision approval.
One Hundred-Year Flood -- A flood having an average frequency of occurrence of once
in 100 years, although it may occur in any year. It is based on statistical analysis of
stream flow records available for the watershed and analysis of rainfall and runoff
characteristics in the general region of the watershed.
Owner -- Any person, group of persons, firm or firms corporation or corporations, or any
other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient proprietary interest in the real property.
Performance Bond -- See "Bond".
Perimeter Street -- Any existing street to which the parcel of land to be subdivided abuts
on only one side.
Planning Commission -- A public planning body established pursuant to Title 13,
Tennessee Code, to execute a partial or full planning program within authorized area
limits.
Preliminary Plat -- The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in these regulations,
indicating the proposed manner of layout of the subdivision to be submitted to the
planning commission for approval.
Premise(s) -- A tract of land together with any buildings or structures which may be
thereon.
Public Improvement -- Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk, pedestrian way,
tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement, or other facility for which the local
government may ultimately assume the responsibility for maintenance and operation or
which may affect an improvement for which government responsibility is established.
Public Way -- Any publicly owned street, alley, sidewalk, or lane right-of-way which
provides for movement of pedestrians or vehicles.
ART. VI-6
Reach -- A hydraulic engineering term to describe longitudinal segments of a stream or
river. A reach generally includes the segment of the flood hazard area where flood
heights are influenced by a man-made area where flood or natural obstruction. In an
urban area, the segment of a stream or river between two (2) consecutive bridge
crossings typically would constitute a reach.
Regulatory Flood -- The one hundred-year flood.
Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation -- The elevation of the regulatory flood plus one
foot of freeboard to provide a safety factor.
Resubdivision -- A change in a map of any approved or recorded subdivision plat
altering the number of lots incorporated within the confines of the original plat.
Right-of-Way -- A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a public way
crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or
storm sewer line, or for another special use. The usage of the term "right-of-way", for
land platting purposes, shall mean that every right-of-way hereafter established and
shown on a final plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining
such right-of-way and shall not be included within the dimensions or areas of such lots
or parcels.
Sale or Lease -- Any immediate or future transfer of ownership, including contract of
sale or transfer, of an interest in a subdivision or part thereof, whether by metes and
bounds, deed, contract, plat, map, or other written instrument.
Same Ownership -- Ownership by the same person, corporation, firm entity,
partnership, or unincorporated association or ownership by different corporations, firms,
partnerships, entities, or unincorporated associations, in which a stockholder, partner,
associate, or a member of his family owns an interest in each corporation, firm,
partnership, entity, or unincorporated association.
Setback -- The distance between a building wall and the nearest public way right-ofway.
Sketch Plat -- A sketch preparatory to the preliminary plat (or final subdivision plat, in
the case of minor subdivisions).
Special Flood Hazard Map -- The official map designated by the Federal Insurance
Administrator to identify floodplain areas having special flood hazards.
Staff Assistant to the Planning Commission -- The person(s) employed by the local
governing body to assist the planning commission in planning and land use regulation
activities.
Start of Construction -- For purposes of subdivision control any alteration of the original
surface area of the land, from and after the date of adoption of these regulations.
Structure -- Anything constructed above or below ground.
ART. VI-7
ART. VI-8
Subdivider -- Any person who (1) having an interest in land, causes it, directly or
indirectly, to be divided into a subdivision or who (2) directly or indirectly, sells, leases,
or develops, or offers to sell, lease, or develop, or advertises for sale, lease, or
development, any interest, lot, parcel site, unit, or plot in a subdivision or who (3)
engages, directly or indirectly, or through an agent in the business of selling, leasing,
developing, or offering for sale, lease, or development a subdivision or any interest, lot,
parcel site, unit, or plot in a subdivision or who (4) is directly or indirectly controlled by or
under direct or indirect common control with any of the foregoing.
Subdivision -- "Subdivision" means the division of a tract or parcel of land into two (2) or
more lots, sites, or other divisions requiring new street or utility construction, or any
division of less than five (5) acres for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale
or building development, and includes resubdivision and when appropriate to the
context, relates to the process of resubdividing or to the land or area subdivided. (See
Sections 13-3-401, Tennessee Code.)
Subdivision Agent -- Any person who represents or acts for or on behalf of a subdivider
or developer in selling, leasing, or developing or offering to sell, lease, or develop any
interest, lot, parcel, unit, site, or plot in a subdivision, except in an instance where only
legal counsel is provided.
Temporary Improvement -- Any improvement built and maintained by a subdivider
during construction of the subdivision and prior to release of the surety for completion of
required improvements.
Twenty-Five Year Flood -- A flood having an average frequency of occurrence of once
in twenty-five (25) years.
Water Surface Elevation -- The heights in relation to mean-sea-level expected to be
reached by floods of various magnitudes and frequencies at pertinent points in the
floodplain. Also the level of natural flows or collectors or water which may be expected
to be found above or below surface.
Zoning Resolution -- A statute, legally adopted pursuant to Title 13, Tennessee Code , for the purpose of regulating by district, land development or use for a designated area. 

ARTICLE VII
ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS AND AMENDMENTS
7-101 Original Enactment
In order that land shall be subdivided in accordance with the objectives and standards
set forth in these regulations, these subdivision regulations are hereby adopted this
______________ day of ________________, 20____, and immediately shall be in full
force and effect. Pursuant to Section 13-3-403, Tennessee Code, a public hearing was
held on these regulations _______________________, 20____, at
_____________________________________________________________________
 Date Time Place
in __________________________________, notice of which was given by publication
(County)
_________________________________________, on _________________, 20____.
 (Name of Newspaper) Date
______________________________________ __________________________
 Chairman Date
ATTEST:
______________________________________ __________________________
 Secretary Date
ART. VII-1 